Every school day, we at The Learning Network teach students a new vocabulary word that was published in The New York Times via our 
Word of the Day
 column. But in February we flipped the script: We challenged young people to come up with a new word of their own that they thought was missing from the English language.
More than 1,000 students from around the world responded to our 
Invent a Word Challenge
. Some created words that spoke to our current moment — terms, for example, that help us communicate about the age of artificial intelligence, the complexities of life online or the lingering effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Others came up with words to describe common mental states teenagers deal with, such as the anxiety of climate change or the feeling of having to adopt different personalities in different contexts. And some were just plain fun — take “fidogevity,” a new word for the average life span of a dog.
The strongest entries provided an interesting word, a clear example sentence and a compelling reason that word should exist. (Unfortunately, we had to disqualify many excellent words that did not follow all of 
our rules
.)
Listed alphabetically below are 27 of our favorites, which were selected by Learning Network staff. Entries have been edited for length and clarity. If you are a finalist and would like your full name published, please have a parent or guardian complete 
our permission form
 (PDF) and send it to us at 
LNFeedback@nytimes.com
.
After enjoying each word, students might take on another challenge: Choose one invented word and try it out in a sentence, then post your sentence to our comments section. Better yet, try using it in your next conversation.
Winner
Miller Roberts, Austin, Texas
synswer (noun)
A reply generated synthetically by a machine responding to a question, statement or request. 
ChatGPT’s perplexing synswer deflated her enthusiasm for using artificial intelligence to do her work.
“Synswer” will be the Word of the Day on April 1, otherwise known as April Fools’ Day.
Runners-Up
covect (noun)
 by Allison, Massachusetts:
A lasting effect of the Covid-19 restrictions and lockdowns. 
One unfortunate covect is that my favorite restaurant went out of business.
decornomen (noun)
 by Desert Marigold High School — 10th ELA, Phoenix:
Modifying the spelling of a common name for stylistic effect. 
My daughter named her child, Jaxson, a decornomen of Jackson.
draftident (noun)
 by The Lexingtographers, Lexington, Ky.:
An accidentally shared social media post, email or text. 
An increase in cyberbullying has been reported due to an influx of draftidents.
enterdraining (adj.)
 by Hogan, Massachusetts:
A person, situation or event that is entertaining and funny but becomes tiring and draining after some time. 
Although Johnny thinks his stories are funny, his friends find him enterdraining after a while.
improffing (verb)
 by Stephen, Guilford, Conn.:
Pretending to be a professional in a certain field, especially in an anonymous setting. 
Surveys show that as many as 50 percent of social media users admit to improffing, having used fake credentials to win an argument at least once.
intralogue (noun)
 by Rehan and Vaibhav Herugu, Marlboro, N.J.:
An extended, nonverbal conversation with oneself, particularly between opposing viewpoints. 
After an assuring intralogue to help quell her fear, the actress felt emboldened to take the stage.
polifickle (adj.)
 by Tyler Kim and Chase Kim, California:
Switching political views often and without commitment. 
One day Anna is rallying for Trump, the next day protesting against him; she is so polifickle!
telefeign (verb)
 by Joshua Atanda, Julia R. Masterman School: 
To take advantage of unclear circumstances caused by a long distance between people in order to deceive someone or create an illusion of something happening. 
Timothy received many brightly-worded text messages from his co-workers congratulating him on his promotion, but Timothy knew that they were just telefeigning, and were angry and jealous of him because they didn’t get promoted themselves.
Honorable Mentions
abandating (verb)
 by Eva, Massachusetts:
The act of leaving all your friends for a new significant other; spending all your time with your partner and abandoning your friends during the honeymoon phase of your relationship. 
Jenna has been abandating us since she got a new boyfriend in January. She hasn’t been to our friends’ hangouts and even missed my birthday dinner.
agemorphic (adj.)
 by Audrey and Zoe, Lexington, Ky.
Someone who appears to be significantly older or younger than they actually are. 
Tom is so agemorphic; I thought he was 42, but he is actually 65!
antimystic (adj.)
 by Logan, Wilmington, N.C.:
A descriptive word for someone who believes in nothing supernatural or mystical. 
My father was an antimystic and did not believe in the Loch Ness monster.
calamitalysis (noun)
 by Alex, North Hollywood High School, California: 
A debilitating stress or anxiety, derived from hopelessness about the terrifying problems of the world. 
I’m sorry I’ve been quiet lately, ever since our last Earth Studies class, calamitalysis has been getting me down.
chilt (verb)
 by Anna Siciliano and Grace, West Hartford, Conn.:
To tilt a chair back so far that one is about to fall, thinks they are going to fall, but doesn’t; the moment of confidence in the lean, followed by primal fear, flailing arms, and often embarrassment. 
Dude stop chilting, you’re gonna fall.
fantosense (noun)
 by Laural, Vermont: 
The feeling you get that something or someone is encroaching on you, but there’s nothing there. 
Turning the corner, fantosense crawled down Amelia’s spine and she looked again for her kidnapper; luckily, he was not there.
fidogevity (noun)
 by Brody, Thomas Middle School: 
The average age of a breed of dog. 
A Shih Tzu has a fidogevity of 14 years.
foodio (noun)
 by Diego, CAG Guatemala: 
The perfect video to watch while you eat your food. 
I will try to find a foodio before eating my breakfast.
gestiferous (adj.)
 by Valentine, Guilford, Conn.: 
Making vehement gestures (typically silent); to be actively and passionately gesturing or motioning. 
Lacking the words to express his anger, Robert grew gestiferous before furiously stomping out of the room.
hatenotize (verb)
 by Robert and Heny, Lancaster, Pa.:
When someone influences other people to dislike someone or something. 
I was at work and Robert hatenotized me to dislike a co-worker.
koresu (noun)
 by Macey and Astrin, Glastonbury High School:
The act of reaching for a thought or memory that was crystal clear just moments before, but in its place, there is nothing. 
As he tried to recall the memories of a dream from last night, it all instantly went blank, as he had a koresu.
lavid (adj.)
 by Katie, Massachusetts: 
Lagging behind the age-appropriate, prepandemic academic and/or social skills due to Covid-19. 
The lavid middle schoolers spent the whole school dance staring at their cellphones instead of socializing.
locabore (noun)
 by Nola, Mill Valley, Calif.:
An iconic landmark that is frequently seen by locals and therefore loses its magnificence, becoming commonplace. 
Each year, millions of tourists flock to the Golden Gate Bridge, but for many San Franciscans, this world-renowned structure has become a locabore.
opinionopoly (noun)
 by Sena Chang, Tokyo: 
A state of society in which a few powerful voices dominate societal discourse, drowning out alternative perspectives and establishing a monopoly on public opinion. 
The commodification of social media, along with the explosion of fake, propagandistic news sites, has brought forth a new era of untrammeled opinionopoly.
perissonance (noun)
 by Annie, Missouri:
The disparity between the social image that people display and their true identity, which is often more held back as a result of social norms. In short, it is personality dissonance. 
Because Annie constantly code-switched from home to school, it was clear she had large perissonance.
presis (noun)
 by Rachel, Hong Kong: 
Acknowledgment of an upcoming crisis of distress and pure agony due to excessively questioning the simple nothings in life. 
With nothing better to do, my friend and I spiraled into a presis asking each other questions about life.
seruamva (noun)
 by Jace and Jake, Glastonbury, Conn.:
The feeling of serenity and calm that washes over you when quietly listening to the rain at night. 
As the storm rolled in, I lay back on my bed and experienced seruamva.
trendxiety (noun)
 by Natasha, New York, N.Y.:
The fear of not keeping up with today’s fast-cycling trends. 
I get trendxiety when I’m not on TikTok because I feel like I’ll miss out a new trend. My parents feel a surge of trendxiety when they hear we don’t use words like “groovy” and “tubular.”
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story