You’re reading The Morning newsletter.  
Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. David Leonhardt and Times journalists guide you through what’s happening — and why it matters. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Officially, the 2024 Republican presidential campaign has barely begun, with only two major candidates — Donald Trump and Nikki Haley — having entered the race.
In reality, the campaign is well underway. Looking at the historical evidence, Nate Cohn, The Times’s chief political analyst, argues that a typical nomination campaign 
is already about halfway done
 by this stage. “The notion that the campaign is already at halftime is a little mind-bending,” Nate writes, “but if you reimagine a presidential campaign as everything a candidate will do to amass the support needed to win, it starts to make a little more sense.”
Consider that Joe Biden won the 2020 Democratic nomination largely on the strength of work that he did — especially as Barack Obama’s vice president — years earlier. Or that Trump probably could not have won in 2016 without his reality television fame. Most modern nominees have had the support of at least 20 percent of their party’s voters at this stage in the campaign, Nate notes. Rising from obscurity is rare, partly because campaign donors and staff members have begun to pick their candidates by now.
For these reasons, there are two distinct categories of 2024 Republican candidates. The first includes only Trump and Ron DeSantis — by far the early polling leaders — and the second category includes everybody else.
When we asked our colleague Maggie Haberman to imagine a scenario in which the nominee is not DeSantis or Trump, she told us, “It’s possible, but it’s just very hard to see.” One way it could happen, she added, would be if DeSantis took a commanding lead and Trump then tried to destroy him. “If it looks like DeSantis is going to be the nominee, Trump is likely to do whatever he can to tear him down before that happens,” Maggie said.
Today, we spin out the possibilities in our inaugural field guide to the 2024 Republican race.
The former president
Trump leads in most early primary polls, typically with more than 40 percent of Republicans’ support nationwide. He could win the nomination simply by retaining that support while remaining voters splinter, as happened in 2016.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
Image
Credit...
In polls from Jan. 19 to Feb. 16. | Source: RealClearPolitics
But Trump’s weaknesses are real. His support tends to be lower in higher-quality polls. Criminal investigations hang over him (
as this new Times story explains
). He has already lost once to Biden. And his preferred candidates underperformed other Republicans last year by about 
five percentage points on average
.
Republican politics often have little to do with policy proposals these days. Still, there are potential policy debates between Trump and DeSantis. Trump has started making 
a populist critique of DeSantis
 for his past support of proposals to cut Social Security and Medicare. DeSantis could criticize Trump for 
supporting Dr. Anthony Fauci
 and for enacting federal spending that caused inflation.
The Florida governor
DeSantis has ascended to national prominence for two main reasons.
First, Florida is thriving during his governorship by some metrics. Many more people are 
moving there than leaving
, The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board pointed out. Florida’s unemployment rate is among the nation’s lowest, at 2.5 percent. During the pandemic, DeSantis lifted restrictions relatively early, and many experts predicted disaster. But Florida’s overall Covid death rate is only modestly higher than the national average, and 
its age-adjusted death rate is lower
. Last year, DeSantis won re-election by 19 percentage points.
Second, DeSantis delights in confronting liberals, and not just about Covid. He has flown migrants to Massachusetts to protest President Biden’s immigration policy. “Florida is where woke goes to die,” DeSantis has said, summarizing the fights he has picked on medical care for transgender youth and on racial issues. “DeSantis’s appeal right now is that he is perceived as both a fighter for conservative causes and a winner,” says our colleague Michael Bender, who’s covering the Republican field.
How might Trump attack him? “Trumpworld sees DeSantis less through the lens of specific policies than how they can paint him generally either as a phony or as someone partial to old-school establishment thinking,” Maggie said. “Mostly, they anticipate that Trump will try to 
smear him repeatedly
 and they think or hope that DeSantis will ultimately have to respond, which so far he’s mostly avoided.”
It remains unclear how well DeSantis, who is not a particularly charismatic politician, will fare in the rigors of a national campaign.
Image
Nikki Haley in Iowa this week.
Credit...
Haiyun Jiang/The New York Times
The potential field
Haley, a former South Carolina governor, is running as a Reaganesque optimist who believes in 
small government and foreign policy hawkishness
. She served in Trump’s cabinet and describes him as a friend — while she offers a sunnier vision of America than he does.
Gov. Glenn Youngkin of Virginia, a former private-equity executive, also takes 
a Reaganesque approach
. He is comfortable with business executives and evangelicals, two big Republican constituencies.
“
I don’t like losers
,” Chris Sununu, New Hampshire’s governor, recently said. “I’m not anti-Trump, I’m not pro-Trump. We’re just moving on.” Sununu also calls himself a conservative who’s not an extremist. Larry Hogan, Maryland’s former governor, would also like to find space in this lane.
Mike Pence is 
a longtime favorite of evangelicals
. But Trump supporters distrust him for not trying to overturn the 2020 election result, while many Trump critics would rather not select his former vice president.
Mike Pompeo has a sterling résumé: He graduated first in his class at West Point, was elected to Congress and served as Trump’s secretary of state. He has remained 
mostly loyal to Trump
. “How does he differentiate himself?” Michael Bender asks.
Senator Tim Scott
 of South Carolina and 
Gov. Kristi Noem
 of South Dakota also seem to be considering a run, as are a few others.
Here’s how one of these candidates might defy the odds: Maybe Trump is as wounded as some people think, or DeSantis will struggle on the national stage. Space might then open for an alternative, and one of the second-tier candidates could shine during the early debates and campaign appearances.
In past campaigns, early poll leaders have sometimes faded (like Rudy Giuliani in 2008) and long shots have won nominations (like Jimmy Carter in 1976 and Bill Clinton in 1992). Upsets do happen, but they’re called upsets for a reason.
To make sense of the campaign, 
Times subscribers can 
sign up for Nate Cohn’s newsletter
.
More on politics
The special counsel investigating Trump’s efforts to overturn the 2020 election 
subpoenaed Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner
.
Trump 
visited East Palestine, Ohio
, where a train derailment spewed toxic chemicals this month, and criticized the Biden administration’s handling of the disaster.
By giving Tucker Carlson exclusive access to Jan. 6 security footage, Speaker Kevin McCarthy essentially outsourced 
re-litigation of the attack to a purveyor of conspiracy theories
.
Since Jimmy Carter entered hospice care, residents in his hometown in Georgia 
have been keeping vigil
.
THE LATEST NEWS
Severe Weather
Image
A snowstorm in Minneapolis yesterday.
Credit...
Craig Lassig/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Hundreds of thousands of people are without power in the Midwest 
because of a winter storm
.
A blizzard could hit Southern California. See 
the snow forecast for where you live
.
War in Ukraine
Ukraine managed to hit Russian-held territory with explosions 
deep behind enemy lines
.
Biden wrapped up a trip to Europe yesterday, promising American commitment to its allies. In Moscow, 
Vladimir Putin welcomed China’s top diplomat
.
Other Big Stories
Lawmakers in Mexico 
gutted the country’s election watchdog
, the body that helped end one-party rule, ahead of next year’s presidential contest.
An Israeli operation to arrest Palestinian fighters in the West Bank led to a gunfight that 
killed at least 10 Palestinians
.
A gunman in Florida killed three people, 
including a child and a reporter
.
The man who 
killed the rapper Nipsey Hussle
 in 2019 was sentenced to 60 years to life in prison.
Opinions
Political leaders blunder into wars because they downplay the costs of war 
and the benefits of peace
, 
Farah Stockman 
writes.
Covid mask mandates didn’t work
, 
Bret Stephens 
argues.
MORNING READS
New menu item: 
Starbucks in Italy is offering 
olive oil-infused coffee
.
“Enablers of our boredom”: 
The banality of ChatGPT is 
more eerie than any A.I. movie
, the critic A.O. Scott writes.
Unwanted connection:
 Who really 
controls your smart home
?
The coldest case in Laramie:
 Listen to 
the story of a long unsolved murder
.
Well:
 Learn about 
the wild world inside your gut
.
Advice from Wirecutter:
 
Get your weekends back
 with a laundry sorter.
Lives Lived: 
During her more than five decades as a television journalist in Brazil, Glória Maria toppled barriers for Black women at a time when the country’s anchor chairs were mostly filled by white men. She 
died at 73
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
A return to N.B.A. action: 
Kevin Durant 
could play
 his first game as a Phoenix Sun next week.
En route to the World Cup:
 The U.S. women’s national soccer team 
beat Brazil
, 2-1, winning the SheBelieves Cup title. 
ARTS AND IDEAS 
Image
Blundstone’s Chelsea boots.
Credit...
Courtesy of Blundstone
These boots are everywhere
Every so often, a boot becomes characteristic of a moment in time. In the early 1990s, there were Timberlands; in the early 2000s, Uggs. For our current era, Max Berlinger writes, fashion historians may point to 
Blundstone’s Chelsea boots
.
The boots have elastic side bands instead of laces or buckles. Their ease and comfort is a key part of the appeal. “I can stand in them for hours,” Woldy Reyes, a chef in New York, said. “I know so many other chefs who wear them in the kitchen.”
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
David Malosh for The New York Times
Find comfort in this 
bacon, egg and cheese fried rice
.
What to Read
“Win Every Argument,” by Mehdi Hasan, and “Say the Right Thing,” by Kenji Yoshino and David Glasgow, 
offer approaches to talking to others
. 
Travel
The celebrated violinist Joshua Bell recommends these 
five places in London
.
Now Time to Play
Image
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
pityingly
. Here is 
today’s puzzle
.
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Bashful (three letters).
And here’s 
today’s Wordle
. 
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow.
P.S. After more than 2,200 movie reviews, the Times film critic A.O. Scott 
is moving to the Book Review
.
Here’s 
today’s front page
.
“
The Daily
” is about a Supreme Court ruling about social media.
Matthew Cullen, Lauren Hard, Lauren Jackson, Claire Moses and Tom Wright-Piersanti contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at 
themorning@nytimes.com
.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox
.