You’re reading The Morning newsletter.  
Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. David Leonhardt and Times journalists guide you through what’s happening — and why it matters. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
American workers are getting smaller raises. Counterintuitively, that may be good news for the economy, and for hopes that the United States can avoid a recession.
Regular readers of this newsletter know that the big question facing the economy right now is whether policymakers can bring down inflation without driving up unemployment and putting millions of people out of work.
Some encouraging signs have emerged on that front lately. Inflation has moderated significantly over the past six months, though it remains too high. The job market has proved remarkably resilient: Despite high-profile layoffs in tech and a few other sectors, overall unemployment remains at a half-century low. 
Data released by the Labor Department
 yesterday showed only a slight increase in layoffs in December; we’ll get fresh data on unemployment tomorrow, when the government releases its monthly jobs report.
But many economists, including policymakers at the Federal Reserve, have viewed those signs of progress warily. That’s partly because they’ve been burned before, initially dismissing high inflation as temporary, only to see it prove more severe and last longer than almost anyone anticipated. But it’s also partly because of signs within the economic data that suggest inflation may persist.
Chief among those signs: wages, which have been rising much faster than they were before the pandemic. Fed officials have repeatedly argued that it will be hard for inflation to fall back to their long-term goal of 2 percent as long as wages keep rising at a rate of 5 percent or more a year, as they have been since the middle of 2021.
On Tuesday, however, there was a hopeful sign. Wages in the private sector 
rose just 1 percent
 in the final three months of 2022, the equivalent of a 4.2 percent annual growth rate. Jerome Powell, the Fed chair, called the data “constructive” yesterday and applauded the evidence of moderating inflation, even as he warned that both pay and prices were still rising faster than policymakers were comfortable with.
Slower wage growth, slower inflation?
Calling slower wage growth a “hopeful sign” might strike some readers as callous. And ordinarily, faster pay increases are better for both workers and the economy as a whole. Indeed, one of the most persistent problems in the decade before the pandemic was that wages were rising too slowly. When that began to change in 2021, many progressives cheered it as evidence that the balance of economic power was, at least temporarily, shifting back toward workers.
But it’s important to remember that the late-pandemic economy hasn’t been particularly friendly to workers, despite their rapidly rising wages. That’s because prices have been rising even faster. After adjusting for inflation, hourly pay actually fell last year, meaning that workers, on average, saw their standard of living decline. (One notable exception: Pay has increased faster than inflation for many workers in the lowest-paid service industries.)
Ultimately, what matters for workers and their families isn’t wage growth, in isolation. It is wage growth in relation to inflation: An economy with 4 percent wage growth and 2 percent inflation will be better for workers than one with 6 percent wage growth and 8 percent inflation.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
Avoiding job losses
To be clear, most economists don’t think that wage growth is the primary reason that inflation has been high recently. And policymakers have said repeatedly that they see no evidence of a dreaded cycle in which pay and prices perpetually push each other higher.
But they also think it will be hard to get inflation fully under control as long as wages keep increasing as fast as they have been. That’s especially true in the service sector, where workers’ compensation accounts for a large share of companies’ costs, and where profit margins are often thin. Hourly pay in restaurants, for example, is up nearly 25 percent over the past two years. Few businesses can sustain that kind of rapid increase in labor costs without also raising prices for customers.
Economists disagree on what it will take for wage growth to slow. One camp, led most prominently by Lawrence Summers, the former Treasury secretary, holds that only a sharp increase in unemployment is likely to cool off salaries and prices of goods and services. That view is based on classic economic models that assume a fairly direct link between the job market and inflation: When unemployment is low, employers compete for workers by raising pay, and then in turn must increase prices to cover their higher costs.
Other economists, however, argue that the world is more complicated. In the period before the pandemic, for example, the job market was strong, but inflation stayed low. In the 1970s, unemployment and inflation were both high. Isn’t it possible that this period, when the economy and job market are adapting after three years of disruption and turmoil, will once again break the rules?
It’s too soon to know. But the wage numbers released this week, in conjunction with other recent economic data, hold out the tantalizing possibility that the answer could be yes. If so, that’s good news, suggesting that inflation could continue to fall without the wave of job losses that so many forecasters have been predicting, and that Americans have been fearing.
More economic news
The Fed 
again raised interest rates
, though the quarter-point increase was the smallest in nearly a year.
Powell said that the Fed was planning “a couple more” increases, and that he expected rates to remain high through 2023.
THE LATEST NEWS
International
The U.S. will 
increase its military presence in the Philippines
, strengthening the Southeast Asian country’s role as a strategic partner in the event of a conflict with China.
Pro-government media in Hungary 
have accused the U.S. ambassador there
 — who is a gay human rights lawyer — of being a menace to the country.
Politics
“
No agreements, no promises
,” Speaker Kevin McCarthy said after meeting with President Biden about the debt limit. 
Nikki Haley, the Republican former governor of South Carolina, seems close to 
announcing a 2024 presidential run
.
The Biden administration cleared the way for 
an oil drilling project
 in Alaska. Opponents call the plan a “carbon bomb.”
Tears and hugs: Biden bade farewell to Ron Klain, his departing chief of staff, 
in a sentimental ceremony
.
The Death of Tyre Nichols
Image
The coffin of Tyre Nichols in Memphis.
Credit...
Desiree Rios/The New York Times
Tyre Nichols’s family 
gathered in Memphis
 alongside community leaders and hundreds of others for his funeral.
“
We mourn with you
,” Vice President Kamala Harris said.
Other Big Stories
Image
Empty shells are turned into weapons at a U.S. ammunition plant.
Credit...
Lyndon French for The New York Times
Ukrainian soldiers have fired thousands of American-made artillery shells a day. The 
journey of that ammunition
 starts in Pennsylvania.
The College Board 
revised its A.P. African American studies
 course after Florida banned it from public high schools. (
See some of the changes
.)
The start-up behind ChatGPT 
will offer a commercial version
 of the online chatbot for a monthly fee. Microsoft said it would 
use the bot
 to simplify its Teams messaging app.
A Nebraska county is sitting on minerals essential to the green economy. Mining would transform the community, but 
many feel an obligation to dig
.
The gossip site 
Gawker is shutting down
 again.
Opinions
The Boeing 747’s success should inspire the creation of a plane that’s 
fast, affordable, safe and green
, 
Sam Howe Verhovek 
says.
Parents who lose children to violence often subjugate their personal grief to public advocacy. 
It takes a toll
, 
Charles Blow 
writes.
The 
battle over an Atlanta-area forest
 is a microcosm of a national crisis over the environment, racism and inequality, 
Richard Powers
 argues.
MORNING READS
Image
Yaba Market in Nigeria.
Credit...
Stephen Tayo for The New York Times
Where We Are:
 In Lagos, Nigeria, the cool kids have 
found one another
 at a thrift market.
The highest mountain:
 She’s climbed Mount Everest 10 times. She trained while 
working at Whole Foods
.
Ruminations:
 Stuck in a mental loop of worries that seem to have no end? 
Here’s what you can do
.
A morning listen:
 Meet the teenager leading 
the smartphone liberation movement
.
Advice from Wirecutter:
 How to 
paint a room
.
Lives Lived: 
Carin Goldberg was a graphic designer who reimagined old typefaces on the covers of hundreds of albums and thousands of books. She 
died at 69
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
A retirement, again: 
Tom Brady 
said he would retire
 from football for the second straight offseason, though he says this one will stick.
A strong roster: 
The
 
W.N.B.A. superstar Breanna Stewart 
will sign
 with the New York Liberty. 
ARTS AND IDEAS 
Image
Chef Anthony Mangieri at Una Pizza Napoletana.
Credit...
Daniel Krieger for The New York Times
The art of frozen pizza
Frozen pizza was long the stuff of midnight meals and after-school snacks. But as freezer and shipping technology improves, some of the country’s best pizzerias have 
begun to offer at-home versions of their pies
.
Pizzeria Bianco in Phoenix didn’t offer takeout before the pandemic. Now, it ships frozen pizzas around the country. “Survival is an interesting motivator for change,” Chris Bianco, the restaurant’s owner, said.
But it is not cheap. For example, three frozen pies from one San Francisco pizzeria, shipped via Goldbelly, will cost you $104.95.
For more:
 The Times did a 
blind taste test
 of 11 nationally available margherita pies.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Andrew Purcell for The New York Times
For a homemade spin on pizza, try this 
vegan version of a classic margherita
.
What to Watch
The 
revival of the 1980s show “Night Court”
 is the most popular new sitcom in years.
What to Read
In “Reckoning,” the creator of “The Vagina Monologues” tackles 
racism, colonialism and sexual violence
.
Late Night
Jimmy Fallon discussed 
Biden’s document drama
.
Now Time to Play
Image
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
itemizing
. Here is 
today’s puzzle
.
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Do agricultural work (four letters).
And here’s 
today’s Wordle
. 
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow.
P.S. The Times urged readers not to trust Groundhog Day predictions 
113 years ago
 this week: “He has gone back on us for three years.”
Here’s 
today’s front page
.
“
The Daily
” is about Democratic primaries.
Matthew Cullen, Lauren Hard, Lauren Jackson, Claire Moses, Ian Prasad Philbrick, Tom Wright-Piersanti and Ashley Wu contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at 
themorning@nytimes.com
.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox
.