You’re reading The Morning newsletter.  
Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. David Leonhardt and Times journalists guide you through what’s happening — and why it matters. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Stuart Kyle Duncan — a federal appeals court judge appointed by Donald Trump — visited Stanford Law School this month to give a talk. It didn’t go well.
Students frequently interrupted him with heckling. One protester called for his daughters to be raped, Duncan said. When he asked Stanford administrators to calm the crowd, the associate dean for diversity, equity and inclusion walked to the lectern and instead began her remarks by criticizing him. “For many people here, your work has caused harm,” she told him.
After Duncan 
described his experience
 in a Wall Street Journal essay last week, the episode has received national attention and caused continuing turmoil at Stanford. The associate dean has been placed on leave. Stanford’s president, Marc Tessier-Lavigne, and its law school dean, Jenny Martinez, have apologized to Duncan. Students responded to the apology with a protest during Martinez’s class on constitutional law. On Wednesday, Martinez wrote a 10-page public memo 
criticizing students’ behavior
 at the judge’s talk and announcing a mandatory half-day session on freedom of speech for all law students.
The conflict is a microcosm of today’s political polarization. Duncan is a pugnacious conservative who opposed the right to same-sex marriage before becoming a judge. During his five years on the bench he has issued rulings restricting abortion, blocking Covid vaccine mandates and refusing to refer to a prisoner by her preferred pronoun. His critics see him as a bully who denies basic rights to vulnerable people. His defenders call him a good conservative judge (and emphasize that the prisoner in the pronoun dispute was convicted of child pornography).
Image
Stuart Kyle Duncan in 2019.
Credit...
Samuel Corum for The New York Times
But even many people who disagree with Duncan’s views have been bothered by the Stanford students’ behavior. And it seems possible that the episode may affect the larger debate over free speech on campuses.
Dignity and curiosity
Over the past few years, some American universities have seemed to back away from their historical support for free speech. Hamline University in Minnesota 
effectively fired a teacher
 who showed a 14th-century painting of the Prophet Muhammad in an art history class. A Princeton student lost her leadership position on a sports team after privately expressing an opinion about policing. Stanford itself allows students to file anonymous complaints against other students, including for speech.
Now, though, Stanford seems to be drawing a line in defense of free speech. “The First Amendment does not give protesters a ‘heckler’s veto,’” Martinez, the law dean, wrote in her memo. Stanford, she vowed, will not become “an echo chamber that ill prepares students to go out into and act as effective advocates in a society that disagrees about many important issues.”
Martinez also wrote: “The cycle of degenerating discourse won’t stop if we insist that people we disagree with must first behave the way we want them to … The cycle stops when we recognize our responsibility to treat each other with the dignity with which we expect to be met. It stops when we choose to replace condemnation with curiosity, invective with inquiry.”
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
The latest: 
Tirien Steinbach — the associate dean who rose to speak during the event and is now on leave — published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal yesterday 
explaining her position
. She said that she was trying to de-escalate the situation and noted that she defended Duncan’s right to speak during her remarks. “While free speech isn’t easy or comfortable, it’s necessary for democracy,” Steinbach wrote.
Below, my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick has compiled a selection of commentary on the episode.
Commentary
David French
, in Times Opinion: 
“It is entirely appropriate to ask any judge difficult questions during the question and answer session after a speech. But protests that go so far as to shout down or disrupt speeches or events aren’t free speech but rather mob censorship.”
Elie Mystal
 of The Nation 
defended the students: “Everybody has the right to speak; nobody has the right to be heard over the din of the crowd.” Mystal also criticized Duncan for insulting the students during the event. (Duncan 
said to one
, “You are an appalling idiot.”)
Steven Lubet
 of Northwestern University’s law school, in The Hill: 
“The judge, the student protesters and an on-scene administrator all played to type, exhibiting arrogance, intolerance and irresponsibility, respectively, that combined to make the afternoon a fiasco for all concerned.”
David Lat
, Substack: 
“In hindsight, would it have been better if Judge Duncan had not lashed out at the protesters? Yes … [But] I’m not going to sit here and judge the judge for not acting more judicially in response to verbal abuse.”
Ed Whelan
, a conservative legal activist
, has criticized Martinez for not punishing any of the students. (In her memo, she explained that it would be difficult to determine who deserved punishment and suggested that the associate dean’s implicit support for the heckling made it difficult for the school to sanction students afterward.)
David Bernstein
 of George Mason University 
called Martinez’s memo passionate and excellent but criticized Stanford for having only one known conservative among its law professors: “Intentionally or not, the Stanford faculty is sending its students the message that right-of-center views are not respectable, and not worth listening to.”
THE LATEST NEWS
TikTok Hearing
Image
TikTok CEO Shou Chew on Capitol Hill.
Credit...
Haiyun Jiang/The New York Times
For five tense hours, Lawmakers 
grilled TikTok’s chief executive
, Shou Chew, about the app’s ties to China and its effects on children for five tense hours.
Chew tried to 
play down TikTok’s links
 to its Chinese owner, ByteDance, emphasizing a plan to store U.S. users’ data on American soil. Lawmakers in both parties seemed unswayed.
The Chinese government made Chew’s efforts more difficult when it announced before the hearing that it would 
oppose a forced sale of TikTok
.
Utah’s governor signed a bill intended to keep minors off 
TikTok and Instagram
 by barring them from accounts without parental consent.
Politics
The U.S. and Canada reached an agreement to 
divert migrants seeking asylum
 from both countries’ borders.
New York City is converting 
upscale hotels and office buildings
 into housing for migrants bused from the southern border.
Alvin Bragg, the Manhattan prosecutor who may indict Donald Trump, rebuffed Republicans’ 
demand for files from the inquiry
.
The Trump investigations are a stress test for the justice system, which the U.S. attorney general says should 
stay out of politics
.
Fake images of a Trump arrest 
show the disruptive potential of A.I.
, The Washington Post reports.
Democrats were searching for a 
missing portrait of Trump
. It was found next to old yoga mats in a Trump hotel.
International
A drone of Iranian origin 
killed a U.S. contractor
 in Syria, according to the Pentagon, which ordered airstrikes in Syria in response.
Israel’s Parliament made it harder to oust prime ministers. Benjamin Netanyahu then 
vowed to proceed
 with divisive efforts to overhaul the judiciary.
The Pentagon is 
struggling to supply Ukraine
 with weapons, exposing a worrisome lack of production capacity in the U.S.
Elián González, who once was the focus of an international custody fight, is expected to 
win a seat in Cuba’s legislature
, The Miami Herald reports.
Other Big Stories
Mayhem in the bond market is sending a 
grim signal about the economy
.
Young people in Montana are 
suing the state
 over its support of fossil fuels in a landmark climate case.
Rare tornadoes 
touched down in Southern California
.
Opinions
Daniel Ellsberg
, the leaker of the Pentagon Papers who was recently diagnosed with terminal cancer, spoke with Times Opinion about 
his life among secrets
.
We’re in a 
new Cold War with China
, 
David Brooks 
says, that is putting industrial policy at the center of our politics.
MORNING READS
Image
Dave Rasmussen is 7 feet 2 inches tall.
Credit...
Sara Stathas for The New York Times
Stop asking:
 Yes, they are very tall. 
No, they do not play basketball.
Nepo babies:
 A famous daughter was grounded for trying to charter a helicopter. 
She told TikTok all about it
.
Forbidden graveyard:
 A million bodies are buried there. Soon, it will 
open to visitors
.
Advice from Wirecutter: 
These are the best 
Easter egg dyeing kits
.
Lives Lived: 
Fuzzy Haskins joined the Parliaments as a teenager. It later became Parliament-Funkadelic, one of the wildest vocal acts of the 1970s. He 
died at 81
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
Sweet 16:
 
Kansas State beat Michigan State
 in an overtime thriller. And Gonzaga toppled UCLA in the last seconds. 
Watch the game-winning three
 from the half court logo.
A cheeky survival:
 The Eagles’ highly successful quarterback sneak tactic, dubbed “The Two-Cheek Sneak,” 
will remain legal
 this coming N.F.L. season.
Buying in: 
Tom Brady is the 
newest investor
 in the Las Vegas Aces, the defending W.N.B.A. champions.
ARTS AND IDEAS 
Image
Credit...
The New York Times
Political chatbots
As artificial intelligence gets more powerful, experts say users should be aware of the bots’ potential for ideological slant. Some examples: ChatGPT was willing to write an ode to Joe Biden, but not to Donald Trump, and a smaller bot, created by the company Brave, informs users that the 2020 presidential election was rigged. The Times explains how chatbots 
are becoming a new front in the culture war
.
Learn more:
 Our colleagues Kevin Roose and Cade Metz are hosting a one-week crash course on A.I. 
Sign up for their newsletter.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
The New York Times
Shakshuka is the apex of eggs-for-dinner recipes. 
Try this one with feta
.
Travel
Discover rum shops
 in Barbados.
News Quiz
How well did you 
keep up with the headlines this week
?
Late Night
The hosts mocked 
the threat of TikTok spying
.
Now Time to Play
Image
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
flavorful
. Here is 
today’s puzzle
.
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Emotional states (five letters).
And here’s 
today’s Wordle
. 
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow.
P.S. The word 
“nonrambunctious”
 — referring to John Adams — appeared for the first time in The Times recently.
Here’s 
today’s front page
. 
“
The Daily
” is about climate change.
Matthew Cullen, Lauren Hard, Lauren Jackson, Tom Wright-Piersanti and Ashley Wu contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at 
themorning@nytimes.com
.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox
.