You’re reading The Morning newsletter.  
Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. David Leonhardt and Times journalists guide you through what’s happening — and why it matters. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Political leaders who have already been in office for more than 15 years — which is how long Benjamin Netanyahu has been Israel’s prime minister — do not typically upend their country’s politics. Yet that’s what Netanyahu has done in recent weeks.
His government’s proposal to reduce the power of Israel’s Supreme Court has created what our Opinion colleague Thomas Friedman calls the nation’s “
biggest internal clash since its founding
.” Hundreds of thousands of Israelis — approaching 5 percent of the population — participated in protests last weekend. Ehud Barak, a former prime minister, has encouraged Israelis to engage in civil disobedience if the proposal becomes law. And many military officers have said they would refuse to report for duty.
Bret Stephens, another Times Opinion columnist — who has often been sympathetic to Netanyahu’s policies — has criticized the judicial plan as a threat to Israel’s moral standing. “Hyper-personalized, populist rule achieved by gutting institutional checks and balances is how democracies devolve into mobocracies,” 
Bret wrote
.
In today’s newsletter, we’ll explain why the later stages of Netanyahu’s political career are turning out to be more chaotic than anything that came before.
What changed?
Netanyahu has always been on Israel’s political right, but he was long able to build alliances with the center. The Israeli left, by contrast, has been marginalized and has not led the government since 2001.
One important cause was the breakdown of peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian leaders in the early 2000s. The failure of those talks — including the Palestinian leadership’s walking away from the 
Camp David negotiations in 2000
 — led many Israeli voters to give up on the idea of peace and support conservative parties. Netanyahu often led the coalitions that spanned the center and right.
But in 2019, while he was prime minister, Netanyahu was indicted on corruption and bribery charges. Many politicians who agree with his Likud party on substantive issues decided that he needed to resign. “Israel’s centrist parties are willing to serve in a coalition with Netanyahu’s right-wing Likud in charge,” Matti Friedman, a journalist who lives in Israel, 
wrote
 for The Free Press. “But they will no longer serve under Netanyahu himself: The prime minister, a master of the political maneuver, has simply lied to too many people too many times.”
This refusal, combined with the continued popularity of the political right, has thrown Israeli politics into turmoil. The country has held five elections since 2019. Likud received the largest share of votes — 23 percent — in the most recent election. Even so, Netanyahu was able 
to put together a governing coalition
 only by allying with far-right and religious parties.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
The current government, as a result, is more radical than the previous governments Netanyahu led.
Image
Israel’s Supreme Court.
Credit...
Lior Mizrahi/Getty Images
Why the Supreme Court?
Israel’s Supreme Court has something in common with the U.S. version: Both are among the most powerful courts in the world. In many other countries, the top court 
does not overturn major laws
 and instead tends to make modest, technocratic changes. In Israel and the U.S., the court often has the last word. (In Israel, the underlying reason is 
the lack of a constitution
.)
The proposed changes by Netanyahu’s government would strengthen the authority of the legislature, which in Israel is known as the Knesset. It is already more powerful than the U.S. Congress, because there is no independently elected president; a majority of legislators choose the prime minister. If the judicial changes go through, the Knesset would also gain the power to override Supreme Court decisions and would have few checks on its power.
Yesterday, the Knesset passed an 
initial version of some of the changes
. Lawmakers will have to vote twice more before the policies becomes law.
Some political commentators argue that the changes themselves are reasonable. “What’s at stake here isn’t the death of the nation’s democracy, but straightforward party politics,” Lahav Harkov of The Jerusalem Post 
wrote
. “The discussion is, in fact, about the proper balance between different elements of a democracy.”
Many other analysts disagree, arguing that the reforms would allow a prime minister to dismantle democracy, much as 
Viktor Orban has done in Hungary
. “Theoretically, you could end up with a government that decides that elections are going to take place once every 20 years,” our colleague Isabel Kershner said.
Either way, the changes have inspired intense anger because they would give Netanyahu’s government sweeping power to implement its preferred policies.
“Underlying this technical debate about the judiciary is a much broader conflict about what kind of society Israel should be,” Patrick Kingsley, The Times’s Jerusalem bureau chief, told us. “Ultra-Orthodox Jews and settler activists are taking advantage of the fact that they wield unprecedented power in Israeli society and government to try to unravel the influence of the court.”
The stakes
Netanyahu and his far-right allies have different incentives to neutralize the court.
For Netanyahu, a court that was subservient to Israeli’s legislature would allow him to end 
his own corruption trial
, which is still taking place. Netanyahu has denied he would do so.
For far-right parties, a neutered court would help the Knesset to enact major policy priorities — such as making it easier for settlers to seize land in the West Bank; protecting government subsidies for religious schools; and helping ultra-Orthodox Israelis avoid mandatory military service.
One reason for the intensity of the debate is the polarization between Israelis who are part of Netanyahu’s coalition and who are outside of it. He has appointed ultranationalist figures to major posts, including Itamar Ben-Gvir, the leader of the far-right Jewish Power party, who threatened Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin weeks before his 1995 assassination and publicly thanked a rabbi who justified Rabin’s murder. Ben-Gvir is now the national security minister.
“Israeli society is at fever pitch,” Patrick said.
THE LATEST NEWS
The Economy
Annual inflation 
fell to 6 percent last month
, still uncomfortably high.
That presents the Federal Reserve with a dilemma: Bank turmoil is a reason to pause interest rate hikes. High inflation is a reason to continue.
The shares of midsize and regional banks rose again after days of sharp falls, 
easing pressure on the industry
.
At first, some government officials didn’t think Silicon Valley Bank’s collapse could imperil the entire financial system. Signs of 
bank runs changed their minds
.
The Justice Department 
is investigating
 the collapse, with a possible focus on executives’ recent stock sales.
Meta, the owner of Facebook, 
is laying off 10,000 employees
, its second round of cuts since November.
War in Ukraine
A Russian warplane 
collided with a U.S. drone
 over the Black Sea, the first known physical contact between the two militaries since the war started.
Russians, fleeing their country, have 
reshaped the societies
 in places like Georgia and Armenia.
Lindsey Graham, Marco Rubio and other Republicans 
criticized Ron DeSantis
 for saying that protecting Ukraine is not a vital U.S. interest.
Other Big Stories
Image
A California resident outside her laundry business yesterday.
Credit...
Nic Coury for The New York Times
California’s 
aging levees are failing
 as storms hit the state.
The United States will require utilities companies to clean up drinking water by removing 
two toxic chemicals
 that are linked to health problems.
President Biden signed an executive order to 
strengthen background checks
 for gun buyers and improve investigations into gun crimes.
Students at Wellesley, historically known as a women’s college, voted to open admission to 
all nonbinary and transgender applicants
.
Opinions
Millennials are hitting middle age, 
Jessica Grose
 writes. 
How are they feeling
?
Pope Francis’ confrontational style and incomplete reforms have widened the 
Catholic Church’s internal divisions
, 
Ross Douthat 
argues.
MORNING READS
Image
“High Country Crags and Moon, Sunrise, Kings Canyon National Park, California.”
Credit...
The Ansel Adams Publishing Rights Trust. Cantor Arts Center. The Capital Group Foundation Photography Collection at Stanford University.
Photo mystery:
 Tracking down the exact spot of an 
enigmatic image by Ansel Adams
.
Shipwreck:
 A silk dress survived more than 
300 years on the bottom of the sea
. Who wore it?
Fake art and stolen Super Bowl rings:
 This F.B.I. 
crime team is busy
.
Advice from Wirecutter: 
Tools to 
ride out a winter storm
.
Lives Lived: 
The novelist John Jakes wrote generational family sagas of the American Revolution and the Civil War that became best sellers. He 
died at 90
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
Your March Madness bracket: 
The First Four is underway, but you still have time to complete your bracket. The Athletic has 
strategies
.
Getting a deal done: 
Aaron Rodgers could be a Jet soon, but he reportedly 
has a wish list
 before he makes the move.
Hello, 48: 
The 2026 World Cup will be bigger and longer. The tournament will 
feature 48 teams
, up from 32, and 104 matches.
ARTS AND IDEAS 
Image
Credit...
The New York Times
A.I. gets smarter
ChatGPT could be getting an upgrade. OpenAI, the company behind the artificial intelligence chatbot, announced the release of GPT-4 yesterday — a 
more sophisticated version
 of the technology powering the chatbot that has upended Silicon Valley. The Times’s technology reporter says it’s an improvement, but some of the same problems remain.
What it can do:
 It has learned to be more precise and accurate. It can ace the Uniform Bar Exam, offer medical advice to doctors and give detailed descriptions of images.
What it can’t do:
 The technology still doesn’t understand what is true or not. And it can’t come up with original ideas or discuss the future.
See 
how GPT-4 differs from its predecessor
.
For more:
 Despite being around for more than a decade, virtual assistants like Siri 
lost the A.I. race
.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
Toss 
brussels sprouts
 with olive oil or bacon fat, salt and pepper and roast them.
Where to Eat
Fine dining rarely has much to say about the state of the country. 
This new restaurant does
, Pete Wells writes.
Books
Read your 
way through Miami
.
Late Night
Jimmy Kimmel mocked 
Donald Trump’s relationship with Mike Pence
.
Now Time to Play
Image
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
glamour
. Here is 
today’s puzzle
.
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: City that’s home to the Galleria Borghese (four letters).
And here’s 
today’s Wordle
.
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow.
P.S. Paul Sonne, who was a Moscow-based intern when he got his first Times byline in 2005, is joining the paper 
as a Russia correspondent
.
Here’s 
today’s front page
.
“
The Daily
” is about the Covid lab leak theory.
Matthew Cullen, Lauren Hard, Lauren Jackson, Ian Prasad Philbrick, Tom Wright-Piersanti and Ashley Wu contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at 
themorning@nytimes.com
.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox
.