You’re reading The Morning newsletter.  
Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. David Leonhardt and Times journalists guide you through what’s happening — and why it matters. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
We’ve become accustomed in American politics to a certain level of truth stretching. Politicians contort facts to justify their plans. Some polish the rough edges of their résumés or inflate military credentials, hoping no one notices. Notoriously, Donald Trump’s falsehood-filled presidency ended with a massive lie about the 2020 election.
But even by the standards of this era of self-aggrandizement and alternative facts, it is hard to find a case quite like that of George Santos, the newly elected Republican congressman from Long Island. As 
a recent investigation
 by my colleagues Grace Ashford and Michael Gold found, Santos did not seem to so much embellish his biography as make it up: degrees, tragedy, religious faith, job credentials, even a charity.
“Politicians don’t tell the truth, sure. Nothing new. Everyone says that,” said Katie Sanders, the managing editor of PolitiFact, a widely respected nonpartisan fact-checking service. “But to be this brazen is unlike anything we’ve seen in recent memory.”
The most vexing question, though, may be what happens to Santos now. He has refused to step down, and his own party has shown little appetite to force him out, particularly amid an ongoing House leadership fight. His activities may yet lead to criminal charges. But short of prosecution, the case is shaping up to be a test of voters’ tolerance for falsehoods in the post-Trump political environment. Sanders called it “a huge moment for truth and lies in politics.”
Today’s newsletter will detail some of Santos’s most egregious fabrications and explain why he may not face immediate consequences.
Wholesale fabrication
As a candidate, Santos presented himself as a compelling political figure: a young, gay, conservative financier with deep connections and family wealth. Voters in his suburban New York district responded, delivering him a nearly eight-point victory in November over a Democrat, Robert Zimmerman.
In the weeks since, nearly every major point of Santos’s biography has unraveled. He claimed that he graduated from Baruch College, then worked at Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. But Grace and Michael found no evidence that he received a college degree or worked at either financial giant. In fact, around that time, he worked as a customer service agent for Dish Network.
Santos claimed to have founded a tax-exempt animal rescue charity that saved more than 2,500 dogs and cats. (He did not.) He claimed he was Jewish and had ancestors who fled the Holocaust. (
He was not and did not
.) He said he “lost four employees” at the 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando. (The Times found no evidence to support the claim.)
His financial assertions have proved murkier. Santos crowed about a family fortune in real estate, but property records show no evidence of the 13 properties he claimed that the family owned. Records do show evictions and credit card debt. He was also involved in a company that the S.E.C. called a Ponzi scheme, though he denies wrongdoing. And he once spent nearly $700 at a clothing store using a stolen checkbook and a false name, according to court records in Brazil, where Santos once lived.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
Yet Santos claimed on federal financial disclosure forms last year that he was earning millions. He also apparently lent his campaign $700,000. It’s not clear where that money came from.
The Spread of Misinformation and Falsehoods
Deepfakes
: 
Meme-makers and misinformation peddlers are embracing artificial intelligence tools to 
create convincing fake videos on the cheap
.
Cutting Back
: 
Job cuts in the social media industry reflect a trend that threatens to 
undo many of the safeguards
 that platforms have put in place to ban or tamp down on disinformation.
A Key Case: 
The outcome of a 
federal court battle
 could help decide whether the First Amendment is a barrier to virtually any government efforts to stifle disinformation.
A Top Misinformation Spreader: 
A large study found that 
Steve Bannon’s “War Room” podcast
 had more falsehoods and unsubstantiated claims than other political talk shows.
What’s next?
Under intense political pressure, 
Santos admitted to
 fabricating some of the claims and stood by others, despite contradictory evidence. But he appeared determined to try to weather the scandal.
This week, he showed up in Washington as if he were any other House freshman eager to get to work. As infighting over who should be speaker consumed Republicans on the House floor, Santos provided a spectacle of his own. For hours, he sat conspicuously alone, looking like a miscast movie extra, before gravitating toward the group of rebel conservatives trying to block Kevin McCarthy’s ascent to the speakership (though he didn’t vote with them). Yesterday, he hid out for part of the day in a cloakroom in the House chamber.
Santos’s support for McCarthy may actually be one of the factors insulating him from Republican criticism. Santos’s lies could tarnish the party over time, and under other circumstances, G.O.P. leaders might move to marginalize or call a House vote to expel him. But with only a narrow House majority, McCarthy cannot afford to lose Santos’s vote by alienating him or prompting him to resign. The leader has stayed silent.
Santos will likely have a difficult time with his new colleagues. Legislative deal-making is often built on trust, and he could effectively be iced out of committee work and floor debates. Powerful Republicans have already said they won’t support his re-election in 2024.
For now, Santos’s most pressing threat may be legal. Federal and local prosecutors in New York have opened investigations into whether Santos violated any laws during his campaign. And, in Brazil, prosecutors said 
they planned to revive fraud charges
 connected to the stolen checkbook.
More Congress news
Republican holdouts, for a third straight day, 
blocked Kevin McCarthy’s bid
 to become House speaker, despite concessions by McCarthy to sway them.
McCarthy has lost 11 roll-call votes, the most since before the Civil War. Lawmakers return today at noon, but there’s no indication of when the impasse may end.
The last voting battle over a House speaker happened 100 years ago. Today’s showdown 
shares some eerie similarities
 to that one, The Times’s Carl Hulse writes.
Donald Trump’s allies 
rebuked his calls to support McCarthy
, more evidence that his grip on the Republican Party is weakening.
The conflict between Republicans in the House is 
playing out in conservative media, too
.
Irritated lawmakers, heated negotiations and a football helmet: what it’s like 
on the House floor
.
THE LATEST NEWS
Politics
President Biden announced new measures 
cracking down on illegal border crossings
. 
South Carolina’s Supreme Court 
overturned a state law
 banning abortions after about six weeks.
Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, 
won’t seek re-election
 in 2024, opening a seat in a battleground state.
Two years after the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol, the authorities have 
arrested more than 900 people
 in connection with it. Scores more could face charges.
The partner of Brian Sicknick, a Capitol Police officer who died after the riot, 
sued Trump for his role on that day
.
N.F.L.
Image
A child making a sign for Damar Hamlin.
Credit...
Joshua A. Bickel/Associated Press
Doctors said the Buffalo Bills player Damar Hamlin, who suffered cardiac arrest during a game on Monday night, 
was awake and improving
. He remains on a ventilator.
The radio traffic moments after Hamlin collapsed crackled with urgency. 
You can hear it here
.
The Bills-Bengals game that was halted 
will not resume
, the N.F.L. said.
Other Big Stories
DNA on a knife sheath, phone pings and trash 
helped lead the police to a suspect
 in the killings of four University of Idaho students, court records show.
Vladimir Putin called for a 
36-hour cease-fire for Orthodox Christmas
. Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine’s president, responded with derision.
During the funeral for Benedict XVI, Pope Francis’ homily 
mentioned him by name only once
, in the final line, upsetting some of Benedict’s supporters.
Major crimes 
rose 22 percent last year
 in New York City, despite homicides falling to their lowest level since 2019.
California could see rain and high winds for the coming days. 
Track the storms
.
Opinions
ChatGPT is A.I.’s “Jurassic Park” moment, 
Gary Marcus
 argues 
on “The Ezra Klein Show.”
Protections for same-sex marriage on the one hand and bigots increasingly hounding queer people on the other is 
giving L.G.B.T.Q. America whiplash
, 
Lydia Polgreen
 says.
MORNING READS
Image
Quintessentially Californian institutions are popping up in Manhattan.
Credit...
Photo Illustration by Adam Powell for The New York Times
California dreaming:
 Cars, wellness and legal weed. Is New York 
turning into Los Angeles
?
Happiness challenge, Day 5:
 Appreciate 
your work friends
.
Tech fix:
 A password manager was hacked. Here’s how to 
keep your passwords safe
.
Modern Love:
 For decades two friends connected nearly every day. 
One terrible moment changed that
.
Advice from Wirecutter: 
Try 
thermal underwear
.
Lives Lived: 
Two months after the Korean War armistice, Kenneth Rowe handed America an intelligence bonanza with his headline-making flight in a Soviet-made MIG. He 
died at 90
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
Coaching rumors:
 Although he has 
expressed interest in returning to the N.F.L.
 in recent years, the Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh said he expected to return to the Wolverines sideline this fall.
Texas fires basketball coach:
 Less than a month after Chris Beard’s arrest, Texas 
officially parted ways
 with him, a stunning fall for one of the game’s best young coaches. 
ARTS AND IDEAS 
Image
A look from the Louis Vuitton x Yayoi Kusama collection.
Credit...
Louis Vuitton
New year, new looks
What will be the defining style of 2023? Vanessa Friedman, The Times’s chief fashion critic, selected 
six reasons to be excited about fashion
 this year. Her picks include:
Polka dots.
 Louis Vuitton collaborated with the Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama for a new collection, and Vanessa says it’s a doozy. Hundreds of pieces of LV merchandise feature speckled dots, “like joyful confetti raining down on a sea of logos.”
Pop culture’s influence. 
“Daisy Jones & The Six,” a series set to come out in March, could bring flower power 1970s designs to music festivals. And, in July, the new “Barbie” movie may bring about a summer of neon pink.
Style on display in May:
 The month starts with the Met Gala, held in honor of Karl Lagerfeld. Less than a week later, it’s time for King Charles III’s coronation in London, which will include pomp and circumstance and serious bling, Vanessa writes.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Andrew Purcell for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Barrett Washburne.
Try the Greek method of 
roasting potatoes
 in olive oil, lemon juice and chicken stock.
What to Watch
“M3gan” is a ludicrous, derivative and irresistible 
killer-doll movie
.
Travel
What to do in 
36 hours in Steamboat Springs, Colo.
Late Night
The hosts joked about Kevin McCarthy’s 
third day of failing to become speaker
.
News Quiz
How well did you keep up with the headlines this week? 
Test your knowledge
.
Now Time to Play
Image
The pangrams from yesterday’s Spelling Bee were 
engulfing
, 
fueling
, 
funneling
 and 
unfeeling
. Here is 
today’s puzzle
.
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Loud kiss (five letters).
And here’s 
today’s Wordle
. 
Thanks for spending part of your morning with The Times. See you tomorrow.
P.S. The Times’s Jeanna Smialek started covering economics 10 years ago. These books 
helped her get up to speed
.
Here’s 
today’s front page
.
“
The Daily
” is about protecting biodiversity.
Matthew Cullen, Claire Moses, Ian Prasad Philbrick, Tom Wright-Piersanti and Ashley Wu contributed to The Morning. You can reach the team at 
themorning@nytimes.com
.
Sign up here to get this newsletter in your inbox
.