Hosted by 
Michael Barbaro
Produced by 
Asthaa Chaturvedi
, 
Carlos Prieto
 and 
Clare Toeniskoetter
With 
Mooj Zadie
Edited by 
John Ketchum
 and 
Mike Benoist
Original music by 
Marion Lozano
 and 
Dan Powell
Engineered by 
Chris Wood
Listen and follow The Daily
Apple Podcasts
 | 
Spotify
 | 
Stitcher
 | 
Amazon Music
Never miss an episode of The Daily  
We'll send you the latest episode as soon as it publishes. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Microsoft recently released a new version of Bing, its search engine that has long been kind of a punchline in the tech world.
The company billed this Bing — which is powered by artificial intelligence software from OpenAI, the maker of the popular chatbot ChatGPT — as a reinvention of how billions of people search the internet.
How does that claim hold up?
On today’s episode
Kevin Roose
, a technology columnist for The New York Times and host of the Times podcast “
Hard Fork
.”
Image
Google has stiff competition now, after Microsoft integrated powerful A.I. technology into its search engine.
Credit...
Ruth Fremson/The New York Times
Background reading
When Microsoft released the new Bing, 
it was billed as a landmark event
 and the company’s “iPhone moment.”
On 
the latest episode of “Hard Fork,”
 OpenAI’s chief executive, Sam Altman, and Microsoft’s chief technology officer, Kevin Scott, talk about an A.I.-powered Bing.
There are a lot of ways to listen to The Daily. 
Here’s how.
We aim to make transcripts available the next workday after an episode’s publication. You can find them at the top of the page.
We want to hear from you.
Tune in, and tell us what you think at 
thedaily@nytimes.com
. For corrections, email: 
nytnews@nytimes.com
. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: 
@mikiebarb
.
Kevin Roose contributed reporting.
The Daily is made by Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, M.J. Davis Lin, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Liz O. Baylen, Asthaa Chaturvedi, Rachelle Bonja, Diana Nguyen, Marion Lozano, Corey Schreppel, Anita Badejo, Rob Szypko, Elisheba Ittoop, Chelsea Daniel, Mooj Zadie, Patricia Willens, Rowan Niemisto, Jody Becker, Rikki Novetsky, John Ketchum, Nina Feldman, Will Reid, Carlos Prieto, Sofia Milan, Ben Calhoun and Susan Lee.
Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Paula Szuchman, Lisa Tobin, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Julia Simon, Desiree Ibekwe, Renan Borelli, Mahima Chablani, Nell Gallogly, Jeffrey Miranda, Elizabeth Davis-Moorer and Maddy Masiello.