Hosted by 
Michael Barbaro
Produced by 
Mary Wilson, 
Asthaa Chaturvedi
, 
Nina Feldman
 and 
Eric Krupke
Edited by 
Patricia Willens
 and 
Mike Benoist
Original music by 
Dan Powell
, 
Marion Lozano
, 
Rowan Niemisto
 and 
Elisheba Ittoop
Engineered by 
Chris Wood
Listen and follow The Daily
Apple Podcasts
 | 
Spotify
 | 
Stitcher
 | 
Amazon Music
Never miss an episode of The Daily  
We'll send you the latest episode as soon as it publishes. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Microsoft recently released a new version of its search engine Bing that is powered by artificial intelligence software from OpenAI, the maker of the popular chatbot ChatGPT.
On Valentine’s Day, after a meal with his wife, Kevin Roose, a New York Times technology columnist, had a two-hour conversation with the chatbot.
The chatbot, which revealed that it identified as Sydney, told Kevin that it wanted to be human, that it loved him and that he should leave his wife.
“There is something going on here that I don’t think Microsoft intended to build into a search engine,” Kevin said on today’s episode. “Something is not right.”
On today’s episode
Kevin Roose
, a technology columnist for The New York Times and host of the Times podcast “
Hard Fork
.”
Image
Microsoft recently released the new Bing, which is powered by artificial intelligence software from OpenAI, the maker of the popular chatbot ChatGPT.
Credit...
Jason Redmond/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Background reading
A conversation with Bing’s chatbot left 
Kevin “deeply unsettled.”
 Read 
the transcript
.
Microsoft knew the new technology had issues like occasional accuracy problems, but users have 
experienced surprising and unnerving interactions
.
There are a lot of ways to listen to The Daily. 
Here’s how.
We aim to make transcripts available the next workday after an episode’s publication. You can find them at the top of the page.
We want to hear from you.
Tune in, and tell us what you think at 
thedaily@nytimes.com
. For corrections, email: 
nytnews@nytimes.com
. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: 
@mikiebarb
.
Kevin Roose contributed reporting.
The Daily is made by Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, M.J. Davis Lin, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Liz O. Baylen, Asthaa Chaturvedi, Rachelle Bonja, Diana Nguyen, Marion Lozano, Corey Schreppel, Anita Badejo, Rob Szypko, Elisheba Ittoop, Chelsea Daniel, Mooj Zadie, Patricia Willens, Rowan Niemisto, Jody Becker, Rikki Novetsky, John Ketchum, Nina Feldman, Will Reid, Carlos Prieto, Sofia Milan, Ben Calhoun and Susan Lee.
Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Paula Szuchman, Lisa Tobin, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Julia Simon, Desiree Ibekwe, Renan Borelli, Mahima Chablani, Nell Gallogly, Jeffrey Miranda, Elizabeth Davis-Moorer and Maddy Masiello.