The University of Texas at Austin, one of the nation’s leading computer science schools, said on Thursday that it was starting a large-scale, low-cost online Master of Science degree program in artificial intelligence.
The first of its kind among elite computing schools, the new program could help swiftly expand the A.I. work force in the United States as tech giants like Microsoft rush to 
invest billions
 in the field.
The university announced the initiative amid a clamor over new technology powered by artificial intelligence that can generate humanlike art and texts. And while some of the technology industry’s biggest companies are laying off workers after years of rapid growth, hiring in A.I. is expected to stay strong.
University officials said they planned to train thousands of graduate students in sought-after skills like machine learning, for a tuition of about $10,000, starting in the spring of 2024. School officials said the cost was intended to make A.I. education more affordable. By contrast, Johns Hopkins University offers an online M.S. degree in artificial intelligence for 
more than $45,000
.
“A.I. is now becoming an essential tool in fields way outside the scope of a handful of tech companies,” said Adam Klivans, a computer science professor at Texas who is the director of the online A.I. master’s program. Noting that A.I. experts are in high demand in industries like biotechnology and finance, Professor Klivans said the new online degree was “something working professionals can participate in to learn the expertise their companies need without leaving their jobs.”
A New Generation of Chatbots
Card 1 of 5
A brave new world. 
A new crop of chatbots powered by artificial intelligence has ignited a scramble to determine whether the technology 
could upend the economics of the internet
, turning today’s powerhouses into has-beens and creating the industry’s next giants. Here are the bots to know:
ChatGPT. 
ChatGPT, the artificial intelligence language model from a research lab, OpenAI, has been making headlines since November for its ability to respond to complex questions, write poetry, generate code, 
plan vacations
 and translate languages. GPT-4, the latest version introduced in mid-March, 
can even respond to images
 (and ace the Uniform Bar Exam).
Bing. 
Two months after ChatGPT’s debut, Microsoft, OpenAI’s primary investor and partner, 
added a similar chatbot
, capable of having open-ended text conversations on virtually any topic, to its Bing internet search engine. But it was the bot’s occasionally inaccurate, misleading and 
weird responses
 that drew much of the attention after its release.
Bard. 
Google’s chatbot, called Bard, 
was released in March
 to a limited number of users in the United States and Britain. Originally conceived as a creative tool designed to draft emails and poems, it can generate ideas, write blog posts and 
answer questions with facts or opinions
.
Ernie. 
The search giant Baidu unveiled China’s first major rival to ChatGPT in March. The debut of Ernie, short for Enhanced Representation through Knowledge Integration, 
turned out to be a flop
 after a promised “live” demonstration of the bot was revealed to have been recorded.
The funding to develop the new master’s program came in part from the National Science Foundation. In 2020, the foundation awarded the University of Texas 
a five-year, $20 million grant
 to establish an A.I. institute 
in machine learning
. That is a field in which computer algorithms learn to make predictions by analyzing large data sets — such as predicting which drug formulations could be best used to treat new viruses.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
Image
Inside the Texas computer science department, which plans to introduce the online A.I. degree a year from now.
Credit...
Joanna Kulesza for The New York Times
Image
The department has offered an large-scale online master’s program in computer science since 2019.
Credit...
Joanna Kulesza for The New York Times
University officials said tenure-track faculty in computer science and related fields, like computer engineering, would teach the online master’s courses via recorded video lectures, along with some interactive sessions. Faculty members involved in an interdisciplinary research program at the university called 
Good Systems
, which is aimed at developing A.I. tools whose potential societal benefits outweigh their harms, will also participate.
The online master’s program will include advanced courses in fields like machine learning; A.I. applications in health; and natural language processing, which helps voice assistants like Siri and Alexa understand human speech. Each course will also include formal ethics training to give students a framework for understanding the societal implications of A.I. systems.
“In each of the classes, the instructor will ask students to reflect on the possible benefits and possible harms of the technologies they are learning about,” said Peter Stone, a computer science professor at Texas who teaches 
a course in ethical robotics
. “People developing the next generation of technologies, as well as users, need to have a realistic view of what are the strengths and limitations of A.I.”
Those creative and critical skills could be in increasingly high demand. Tech companies are scrambling to develop advanced chatbots and other A.I. tools that can generate images and texts in response to short prompts — even as some researchers warn that the rush to deploy these novel systems could 
pose risks, such as political manipulation
.
Image
The new program plans to enroll about 2,000 students each year, said Don Fussell, chair of the Texas computer science department.
Credit...
Joanna Kulesza for The New York Times
The Texas program was inspired in part by the Georgia Institute of Technology, which in 2014 became the first leading computer science school to start 
a large-scale, low-cost online master’s degree
 in that field. Thousands of students have graduated from the program.
In 2019, the University of Texas at Austin started its own large-scale online master’s degree program in computer science, followed by a similar online master’s in data science in 2021. Together, the programs have an enrollment of about 2,800 students.
The university plans to open applications for the new A.I. master’s program this June with the aim of enrolling more than 2,000 students per year, said Don Fussell, the chair of the computer science department. To be accepted into the online program, he said, students will not be required to have a bachelor’s degree in computer science, but they will need to have expertise in a technical field like engineering or computing. The A.I. courses will be offered through edX, a popular learning platform that also hosts the university’s online master’s courses in computer and data science.
With widespread layoffs at Amazon, Google and other tech firms, the online program may already have a ready-made audience: tens of thousands of unemployed tech workers looking to specialize in artificial intelligence.
“If these layoffs continue, I think we are going to see a shift among a lot of people from general computer science and tech backgrounds to A.I.,” Professor Fussell said. “That’s the way the field is moving.”
Computer Science and Education
Alarmed by A.I. Chatbots, Universities Start Revamping How They Teach
Jan. 16, 2023
Computer Science Students Face a Shrinking Big Tech Job Market
Dec. 6, 2022
An Online Education Breakthrough? A Master’s Degree for a Mere $7,000
Sept. 28, 2016
Are You Applying for Tech Jobs or Internships? We Want to Hear About It.
Dec. 6, 2022