“What are the things we do today that will seem embarrassing or otherwise regrettable to our future selves — the stuff that will make us cringe when we look back on how we lived our lives in the early 2020s?”
That’s the question the Styles section posed to 30 people from academia, fashion, media, the arts and business (as well as a certain infamous chatbot) for the article “
Future Cringe
” by George Gurley. How would you answer it?
Here is what some of the respondents said.
Cord Jefferson, TV writer, journalist, essayist:
The world is so humiliating in so many ways these days, and its embarrassments only seem to multiply year after year. There’s a lot I could mention — Crocs is the easy one.
Michael Musto, columnist:
Gender-reveal parties will become totally obsolete when people realize that you won’t know the baby’s gender until quite some time later.
And the current trend of binge-watching — we’ll look back and say, “Can you believe people thought having watched a season of ‘Wednesday’ was something to brag about to complete strangers on social networks? That must have been before we got a life.”
Kevin Kelly, co-founder, Wired magazine:
Having your first name decided by your parents will be as unfashionable as having them pick who you marry.
Rufus Wainwright, singer-songwriter:
Plastic bottles.
Agnieszka Pilat, artist:
Selfies (and social media as we know it). Because our relationship to data and to privacy has to change drastically, I strongly believe that selfies on social media will be something we will look back at with embarrassment. Posting close-ups of our faces, our families with locations and time stamps, will seem terribly reckless.
Bill Schulz, TV writer, journalist:
You know how the very idea of a phone conversation, regarding anything that can otherwise be texted, seems rude at this point? I think we’ll feel the same way about face-to-face conversations 20 years from now, whether it be a random interaction on the street or having dinner with actual friends. It will seem offensive to “future us” if a person attempts actual verbal contact.
Chi Ossé, member, New York City Council:
I think professional clothing is something that’s going to be so cringe. Ties are so dumb. I’m wearing one right now but they’re literally these strips of fabric that don’t have a purpose, except for upholding some level of professionalism. It’s a weird way for humans to express themselves and, worse, it’s uncomfortable.
The second thing: I’m gay and I think L.G.B.T.Q. and saying L.G.B.T.Q. is going to become so cringe. It’s a lot of letters. I think “queer” is something that’s all encompassing and represents the entire community as a whole.
Bebe Buell, singer-songwriter, memoirist:
I think we’re going to regret the murder and slaughter of so many animals in such an inhumane way. Meat, the way we treat animals — we’re going to look back and be mortified that this is the way we lived.
ChatGPT, chatbot:
Overreliance on technology: Our over-dependence on smartphones, social media and other digital devices will likely look outdated in a few years as new technologies emerge.
Students, 
read the entire article
, then tell us:
Which responses did you find most interesting or surprising? Were there any that made you think differently about things you do today?
Were there any responses you agreed with? Were there any you disagreed with? If so, what were they, and why?
Now it’s your turn to answer the question: What is something we do today that will make us cringe when we look back on it in the future? Why do you think so?
Students 13 and older in the United States and Britain, and 16 and older elsewhere, are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public and may appear in print.
Find more Student Opinion questions here.
 Teachers, 
check out this guide
 to learn how you can incorporate these prompts into your classroom.