Image
British Challenger 2 tanks during NATO exercises in 2019.
Credit...
Ints Kalnins/Reuters
Britain pushes for more aid to Ukraine
Britain yesterday 
confirmed plans to send 14 tanks
, among other sophisticated military equipment,
 
to Ukraine in the coming weeks. Two top British officials will visit the U.S., Canada, Germany and other NATO allies this week to discuss closer coordination on sanctions against Russia and military aid to Ukraine.
Only months ago, such aid was considered taboo; Western countries resisted sending powerful arms to Ukraine, fearing that such support would prompt Russia to escalate the grinding war. But one expert said that Russia appeared to be mobilizing hundreds of thousands of new conscripts, a development that accelerated discussions about giving Kyiv the tanks.
On the ground in Ukraine, the death toll from Russia’s strike on an apartment building in the city of Dnipro on Saturday has 
risen to 40
. The U.N. has confirmed the deaths of more than 7,000 Ukrainian civilians in the war but said the full toll was far higher.
What’s next:
 Britain said it would begin training Ukrainian forces on the tanks and guns in the coming days. Thousands of Ukrainian troops have trained in Britain over the last six months.
Germany: 
Britain’s announcement could increase pressure on Germany to send its coveted Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, or at least allow other European countries to do so.
Image
A Covid test making factory in Hangzhou, China, where protests were held. 
Credit...
The New York Times
China’s ‘zero Covid’ workers revolt
The Chinese workers once employed to carry out the mass testing that for years was a cornerstone of the country’s pandemic strategy have faced a sudden loss of income, as the country abandoned its “zero Covid” campaign. Now, hundreds of angry pandemic-control workers 
are protesting to demand wages and jobs
.
The turmoil threatens the ruling Communist Party’s efforts to maintain stability amid high youth unemployment, a flagging economy and an explosion of Covid across the country. China said on Saturday that it had recorded nearly 60,000 fatalities linked to the coronavirus in the last month, though experts said the actual death toll was likely much higher.
China has reached a pivotal moment: The 
population
 
has begun to shrink
 after a steady, yearslong decline in its birthrate that experts say will be irreversible. Government data shows that, for all of last year, 
China’s economic growth was 3 percent
 — less than half what it was in 2021 and far short of the country’s goal of around 5.5 percent.
Image
Supporters of Scotland’s new gender recognition legislation.
Credit...
Jane Barlow/Press Association, via Associated Press
Westminster blocks Scottish gender change legislation
The British government 
moved to block new Scottish legislation
 that would make it easier for transgender people to have their gender legally recognized. The action stokes a highly charged debate over transgender rights and widens a constitutional rift, as the government in Edinburgh campaigns for Scottish independence.
The law would allow transgender people in Scotland to be issued a new birth certificate without a medical diagnosis and make it easier to legally change their genders. Under the legislation, people age 16 and older could apply for a gender recognition certificate by legally declaring that they are living in their “acquired” genders and intend to do so permanently.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
The British government in London argues that the move by the Scottish Parliament breaches equalities legislation that applies across Britain by affording people different treatment depending on where they live. It is the first time the government in London has overruled Scotland’s Parliament by using the authority of a 25-year-old statute.
Response: 
Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, described the action as “a full-frontal attack on our democratically elected Scottish Parliament.” The Scottish government would defend the legislation, she said.
Context: 
In Britain, the debate over transgender rights has become increasingly contested, with prominent voices, including the writer J.K. Rowling, rallying opposition to the Scottish legislation and other proposals on gender recognition. The country’s only youth gender clinic was shut down last year.
THE LATEST NEWS
Around the World
Image
Credit...
Luc Gnago/Reuters
Armed insurgents 
kidnapped 50 women in Burkina Faso
, which has been battling a jihadist insurgency since 2015.
Two former executives at Fox are 
accused of paying bribes
 to obtain FIFA broadcast rights, including for the World Cup.
Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza, released a video showing a man who 
identified himself as Avera Mengistu
, an Israeli civilian held captive since 2014.
From Europe
Image
Credit...
Agence France-Presse, via Ufficio Stampa Comando Generale
Italian police 
arrested the mafia boss
 Matteo Messina Denaro yesterday. He was Italy’s most wanted fugitive and had spent three decades on the run.
A police officer in London pleaded guilty to 
49 charges of sexual abuse
, including rape, committed over a 17-year period.
Germany’s defense minister, Christine Lambrecht, 
resigned after a year of criticism
 over public blunders and her response to Ukraine.
Two more European lawmakers stand to lose their immunity, paving the way for more arrests, as 
a sprawling corruption investigation
 ripples through the E.U.
What Else Is Happening
White House officials said it did not keep visitor logs 
for President Biden’s personal residence,
 where classified documents were recently discovered.
With the rise of the popular new A.I. chatbot ChatGPT, colleges are 
restructuring some courses
 and taking preventive measures against plagiarism.
The Italian tradition of truffle hunting has a sinister, murderous and money-hungry underside. For dogs who dig, 
the pursuit can be perilous
.
A Morning Read
Image
Credit...
Jessica Tezak for The New York Times
“At some point in the day my two worlds would collide, and it would be hard to differentiate between book world and the real world. It was like they would sandwich together.”
A faked death. Questions from the police. And an online community of romance writers where the line between 
fact and fiction could become all too easily blurred
.
Lives Lived
Gina Lollobrigida
, the Italian actress, sex symbol and later-in-life photographer, died yesterday in Rome. She was 95.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
Why Super Cup win is just the start for Xavi’s Barcelona: 
Another statement win over Real Madrid is 
a clear sign
 that Barcelona is no longer a team on a downward trajectory.
Everton is broken: 
The atmosphere 
was toxic
 at Goodison during another Everton loss. How bad? The board of directors was told not to attend for its safety.
49ers key to Leeds’s Rutter deal: 
The proactive role of 49ers Enterprises in supporting the bid for Georgino Rutter and agreeing to meet future payments for him is 
another firm indication
 that a change of ownership coming.
From The Times:
 Novak Djokovic’s deportation from Australia was major news in January 2022, but a year later, the Open, country and sport 
seem eager to move on
.
ARTS AND IDEAS
 
Image
Credit...
Geoffrey Short/Universal Pictures
A killer wardrobe for a deadly doll
For most of the horror film “M3gan,” the antagonist — a murderous doll whose name is pronounced “Megan” — wears a striped, silk twill scarf tied in a pussy bow, an inverted-pleat shift dress layered over a striped long-sleeve shirt, white stockings and shiny black Mary Janes.
The reporter Joshua Lyon talked with the film’s director, Gerard Johnstone, and costume designer, Daniel Cruden, about M3gan’s clothes. This is a lightly edited excerpt. 
Read the full interview here
.
Where did you look for inspiration for M3gan’s clothes?
Johnstone:
 I kept going back to the ’60s because of the detailing and the fabrics. Everything was so rich. And Gucci kids’ dresses ended up being a big inspiration. I loved a yellow one with red ribbons that I saw online, but we couldn’t physically get our hands on it.
What are some of the outfits that didn’t make it into the movie?
Cruden:
 There was a scene that showed different M3gans on a turntable wearing looks I created for her. One was French-inspired, with a black beret, black turtleneck and high-waisted flared silk pants. We had a beach M3gan with a peasant blouse, beach hat and espadrilles. Equestrian M3gan had jodhpurs and riding boots. Sporty M3gan looked like she was ready for tennis.
Johnstone:
 Daniel did a very Audrey Hepburn look with a scarf and sunglasses. But the looks were on a dummy M3gan, and she didn’t look alive. If we’d been able to do it with our main M3gan, it would have worked. It was a shame.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
David Malosh for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon Andrews.
Say “ciao” to 
your new pasta alla Norma
.
What to Watch
The comedy “Night Court” ran from 1984 to 1992. 
More than 30 years later, it’s back
.
On Design 
Bold colors are 
making a comeback
 in Danish décor after years of muted minimalism.
Now Time to Play
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Whole bunch (four letters).
And here are 
today’s Wordle
 and 
the Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. See you tomorrow. — Natasha
P.S. The word 
“nonfastball”
 appeared for the first time in The Times yesterday, in 
a story about Japanese baseball
.
There is no new episode of “The Daily.” On “
The Ezra Klein Show
,” a Harvard professor dismantles the “convenient myth” of Martin Luther King Jr., whose birthday was observed in the U.S. yesterday.
You can reach Natasha and the team at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.