You’re reading the Morning Briefing: Europe Edition newsletter.  
Get what you need to know to start your day. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Image
Benjamin Netanyahu said he acted “out of a desire to prevent a rift in the nation.”
Credit...
Amit Elkayam for The New York Times
Netanyahu backs off
After days of intense civil unrest, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that he would 
delay contentious plans to overhaul Israel’s judiciary
. Netanyahu’s move, after the assent by a powerful right-wing ally, was an attempt to 
give him time to try to de-escalate the crisis
 and manage competing demands.
“When there is a possibility of preventing a civil war through dialogue, I, as the prime minister, take a timeout for dialogue,” Netanyahu said. The move came “out of a desire to prevent a rift in the nation,” he added.
Israel’s main labor union called off a general strike, but protests 
continued late into the night
. Netanyahu’s move appeared — at least in the immediate term — only to harden the country’s divisions. Police used water cannons and stun grenades to disperse pro- and anti-government protesters who were blocking main roads, hours after Netanyahu’s announcement.
Netanyahu’s concession came after 
Itamar Ben-Gvir
, who leads a powerful far-right political party and is the national security minister, said that he was open to postponing the vote. But Ben-Gvir made it clear that he would not back down. “The reform will pass,” he said on Twitter.
Context: 
Netanyahu’s government, the 
most right-wing and religiously conservative
 in Israeli history, is trying to give itself 
greater control
 over the selection of Supreme Court justices and to limit the court’s authority over Parliament.
Demonstrations: 
The proposed changes have incited one of the deepest domestic crises in Israel’s history. Street protests and strikes have halted some health services and blocked flights from leaving the main airport. 
Here are photos
.
Image
A German-made Leopard 2 tank.
Credit...
Martin Meissner/Associated Press
More tanks arrive in Ukraine
Ukraine has 
begun receiving the bulk of the advanced battle tanks
 promised by Germany and Britain. The highly anticipated deliveries come as Ukraine prepares for an expected spring offensive.
The German-made Leopard 2 battle tanks are more advanced than the 
Soviet-era tanks
 that Ukraine has relied on so far. Germany has used them for decades. So have more than a dozen other European countries. Poland, which had prodded its allies to give Ukraine more advanced equipment, had already given Leopards to Ukraine.
Labor Organizing and Union Drives
U.A.W. Election: 
An insurgent candidate 
won the presidency of the United Auto Workers union
, potentially setting the organization on a 
more confrontational path
 as it heads into contract talks this year with the three Detroit automakers.
L.A. Schools Strike: 
Local 99 of the Service Employees International Union, which represents 30,000 education workers including bus drivers and cafeteria workers, 
reached a tentative deal
 with the Los Angeles Unified School District, after 
a three-day strike
.
Amazon: 
Federal labor regulators have concluded that the company’s policy of restricting the warehouse access of off-duty employees is illegal, backing a contention of the union that 
has represented workers at a Staten Island warehouse
 since winning an election there last year.
The Challenger tanks from Britain arrived, too, Ukraine’s defense minister said. He said 
on Facebook
 that he had ridden in a new Challenger and compared it to a Rolls-Royce. In January, Britain promised 
14 Challenger 2 tanks
, in an effort to persuade other countries to follow suit.
Context: 
Western allies initially declined to give Ukraine the more powerful equipment, fearing that it could escalate the conflict.
What’s next:
 The first round of Abrams tanks from the U.S. 
are expected to arrive this fall
.
Other updates:
The top U.N. nuclear safety official plans to 
visit the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant
 this week. A possible Ukrainian offensive in the south could escalate fighting in the area and raise fears for the battle-scarred nuclear plant.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
Image
A strike at the piers in Hamburg, Germany, yesterday.
Credit...
Fabian Bimmer/Reuters
Germany’s major strike
Travel for millions of people in Germany was upended yesterday when public transit workers staged 
the largest transit walkout in decades
. The strike halted most trains, trams, buses and ferries, forced the cancellation of most flights and served as a warning about the stakes of salary negotiations.
About 155,000 workers walked out in the “mega-strike,” as it was called in German media. Two of Germany’s largest unions called for the strike in an effort to gain leverage in talks with the government. The workers seek salary increases of more than 10 percent to keep up with inflation.
A British comparison:
 Like the strikes in Britain by 
nurses, postal workers, train drivers and teachers
, the unrest in Germany is driven by the rising cost of living. Inflation was 8.7 percent last month in Germany and 
10.4 percent in Britain
.
THE LATEST NEWS
Europe
Image
Credit...
Andrew Milligan/Press Association, via Associated Press
Scotland’s top party 
picked a new leader
: Humza Yousaf. He is on course to be the first Muslim leader of a democratic Western European nation.
President Biden 
plans to visit Northern Ireland
 next month to mark the 25th anniversary of the landmark peace agreement. But he doesn’t plan to see King Charles III, which could be interpreted as a snub.
Germany wants more semiconductor manufacturers. But 
the competition is stiff
, and some wonder if wooing the companies is worth the cost.
Around the World
Six people, including three 9-year-old children, 
were shot and killed six people
 at a school in Tennessee. Police killed the assailant, the authorities said. Here are 
live updates
.
The World Bank warned of 
a damaging “lost decade” of long-term economic growth potential
, exacerbated by the war in Ukraine and the pandemic.
The Biden administration plans to 
hold off more strikes in Syria
, at least for now, seeking to avoid a wider war with Iran and its proxies.
Other Big Stories
Image
Credit...
Mohd Rasfan/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Taiwan’s former president, Ma Ying-jeou, 
is visiting China
, a first for any sitting or former leader of Taiwan since China’s civil war ended in 1949.
Kamala Harris, the U.S. vice president, ‌is 
visiting Ghana, Tanzania and Zambia
. The relationship between the U.S. and its allies in Africa has waned, as 
China’s influence grows
 there.
Two of Lebanon’s leaders tried to delay daylight saving time to ease the Ramadan fast. That decision 
led to chaos
; the leaders, who are Muslim, hadn’t consulted other religious groups. Christians rejected the change.
A Morning Read
Image
Credit...
ELRECO
Conflicts between humans and elephants are an urgent problem across Africa, as people encroach on formerly wild areas. The encounters are often dangerous for all involved.
So, some conservationists are using 
artificial bee sounds
 to keep elephants away from people. Early evidence suggests that the buzzing technology could work.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
U.S. national team could land a high-scoring 21-year-old: 
Folarin Balogun
, who has played for England’s Under-21 team, was born in the U.S. He is eligible to play for England, the U.S. and Nigeria.
A son follows in the footsteps of a Real Madrid legend:
 Marcelo wove himself into Real Madrid’s history during his 16 years with the club. His son 
Enzo is looking to do the same
.
How to fix Tottenham Hotspur:
 Antonio Conte’s rant last week suggested he saw Tottenham as a broken club. 
How can it be repaired?
ARTS AND IDEAS
Image
Credit...
Illustrations by Mathieu Labrecque
Welcome to A.I. boot camp
We have a new newsletter that will teach you, in just five days, everything you need to know about A.I. and chatbots. The 
first edition asks a deceptively simple question
: 
What is “artificial intelligence”?
 Here’s some history to bring you up to speed.
In 2012, what shifted the entire field was the idea of a “
neural network
.” That’s basically a mathematical system that learns skills by finding statistical patterns. (By analyzing thousands of cat photos, for instance, it can learn to recognize a cat.) Neural networks allows services like Siri and Alexa to understand speech, identify people and objects in photos and translate languages.
Then came 
large language models
. Around 2018, companies like Google, Microsoft and OpenAI began building neural networks that were trained on vast amounts of text.
Somewhat to the experts’ surprise, these systems learned to write unique prose and computer code and carry on sophisticated conversations. Such technology is sometimes called 
generative A.I.
, and it has laid the foundations for ChatGPT and other 
chatbots
, which are poised to dramatically change our everyday lives.
Tomorrow, the newsletter will look at how chatbots work. 
Sign up here
.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Johnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Sue Li.
For even better 
sunny-side-up eggs
, cover them for the last minute of cooking.
What to Listen to
Lisa O’Neill and the band Lankum are part of 
a fresh wave of Irish music
.
What to Read
“
How Not to Kill Yourself
,” a memoir, is an unflinching guide to saving lives.
Parenting
Tips to 
talk to kids about cannabis
.
Exercise
Here’s how to assess your fitness 
without focusing on your weight
.
Now Time to Play
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Needed to pay (four letters).
And here are 
today’s Wordle
 and 
the Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Thanks for joining me. — Amelia
P.S. Read about how 
the word “tattoo” has changed
 throughout The Times’s history.
The latest episode of “
The Daily
” is on children and social media.
You can reach Amelia and the team at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.