(Want to get this newsletter in your inbox? Here’s 
the sign-up
.)
Image
The site of the Russian attack in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro.
Credit...
Lynsey Addario for The New York Times
1. The death toll from a Russian strike on a Ukrainian apartment complex rose to 40,
 making it one of Russia’s deadliest attacks on civilians in the war.
Search crews 
continued to scour for survivors in the debris of an apartment block in Dnipro
, after it was hit on Saturday. Details also began to emerge about some of the victims, including two young mothers and a 15-year-old, a Ukrainian official said. The strike prompted renewed calls for Moscow to be charged with war crimes.
The United Nations said today that it had 
confirmed the deaths of more than 7,000 Ukrainian civilians
 in the 11 months since Russia invaded, but the organization said the real toll was far higher.
In other war news,
 Britain confirmed 
plans to send tanks
 and other sophisticated military equipment to Ukraine. Months ago, 
such aid was considered taboo
.
Image
Faculty at the University of Florida in Gainesville met recently to discuss how to deal with ChatGPT.
Credit...
Todd Anderson for The New York Times
2. Alarmed by A.I. chatbots, universities are beginning to revamp how they teach.
Professors and administrators are starting to overhaul classroom procedures in response to ChatGPT, an artificial intelligence chatbot that can answer questions and write clean college essays.
The new technology 
is prompting some professors to redesign their courses
, adding more oral exams, group work and handwritten assessments in lieu of typed ones. The moves could potentially represent a huge shift in teaching and learning methods.
In other higher education news,
 if the Supreme Court overturns or rolls back affirmative action in college admissions, as is expected, it could spur colleges 
to end practices that critics say have benefited the well-heeled
.
Also,
 some public colleges have banned TikTok from campus Wi-Fi networks as states restrict the video app from their state-owned networks. 
Students can’t stop talking about it
.
Image
The White House Counsel’s Office said no logs exist because Biden’s home is not an official government property.
Credit...
Pete Marovich for The New York Times
3. The White House said it does not keep visitor logs at Biden’s Delaware home.
Officials said today that 
no logs are kept of who comes and goes from President Biden’s personal residence in Wilmington, Del.,
 where six classified documents were recently discovered. A top House Republican requested the logs, citing what he called “serious national security implications.”
The demands by Republicans for transparency over Biden’s classified documents highlight the political danger for the president, who criticized former President Donald Trump when boxes of classified records were found at his Florida residence.
In other White House news,
 the president last year delivered a call to arms for voting rights during a speech honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Atlanta. Yesterday, he returned 
to the city, with little to show for it
.
Image
An image taken from a video that showed a tense standoff between workers and the police at a Covid test kit factory this month.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
4. Unpaid “zero Covid” workers are protesting in China.
After China’s abrupt reversal of “zero Covid” restrictions, the nation’s vast machinery of virus surveillance and testing collapsed. Now, 
angry pandemic-control workers are demanding lost wages and jobs
.
In Chongqing, hundreds of workers locked in a pay dispute with a Covid test kit manufacturer hurled objects at police officers in riot gear. In Hangzhou, witnesses said several workers threatened to jump off the roof of a test kit factory to protest unpaid furloughs.
The unrest highlights the fallout from China’s “zero Covid” policy U-turn, and is presenting a challenge to the ruling Communist Party amid high youth unemployment, a flagging economy and 
an explosion of Covid cases
 across the country.
Image
The Arizona Canal, which carries water to Scottsdale.
Credit...
Erin Schaff/The New York Times
5. An Arizona suburb has had its water cut off amid a drought.
Earlier this month, the community of Rio Verde Foothills had its water shut off by the Arizona city of Scottsdale, its supplier, which blamed it on the grinding drought that is threatening the future of the West. Residents scrambled to make do, flushing toilets with rainwater, lugging laundry to friends’ homes and skipping showers.
The fate of the subdivision has turned into the worst-case scenario for a hotter, drier climate, and 
a cautionary tale of unregulated growth colliding with shrinking water supplies
.
In other climate news,
 dwindling snow in the Swiss Alps 
has resulted in an identity crisis in some German and Swiss villages
.
Image
Nineteen states and the District of Columbia now have red flag laws.
Credit...
Josh Ritchie for The New York Times
6. Did a red flag law prevent a shooting in Florida?
In October, a 17-year-old threatened to kill people at the Fort Lauderdale high school he previously attended in an Instagram message to a student. He also included a photograph of a handgun and an assault rifle with the school’s name written across the image.
Informed of the threat, law enforcement officials made use of Florida’s so-called red flag law, and obtained an order from a judge allowing them to remove any guns in the young man’s possession, possibly averting a mass shooting.
Gun rights groups argue that red flag laws violate due process — the right to have one’s case heard in court. But public health experts say 
a growing body of research suggests that the laws may prevent gun violence at least some of the time
.
Image
Michael R. Jackson, who wrote “A Strange Loop,” signed playbills after its final performance.
Credit...
Justin J Wee for The New York Times
7. The musical “A Strange Loop”
 won a Pulitzer Prize and the Tony for best musical, but it closed after a nine-month Broadway run.
The meta-musical, in which a gay, Black musical theater composer endeavors to write a show about a gay, Black musical theater composer, set a new box office record for the theater that housed it. But it has been a tough theater season in New York; audiences are smaller than they were before the pandemic. Five other Broadway shows closed yesterday.
Our reporter spoke to Michael R. Jackson, the show’s creator
. “The more that I’ve reflected on it, it really makes sense to me that ‘A Strange Loop’ would be a supernova that cuts across the firmament and then explodes,” Jackson said. His next musical, “White Girl in Danger,” starts previews Off Broadway in March.
Image
John Larroquette won four Emmys for his work in “Night Court.”
Credit...
Will Matsuda for The New York Times
8. Thirty years later, “Night Court” returns.
The affable workplace comedy set in a Manhattan courtroom during its graveyard shifts ran from 1984 to 1992 on NBC. Tomorrow, the series returns in a reboot with John Larroquette reviving his role as Dan Fielding, the smarmy prosecutor and pervy fathead.
In this reimagining, Dan is still a narcissist and a buffoon, yet he no longer leads with his genitals. For Larroquette, it was 
the challenge of updating his most famous character for a new age
 that drew him back. “I wanted to see if I could make him funny again,” he said.
In other entertainment news,
 
Gina Lollobrigida
, the Italian actress who was one of the first major European sex symbols of the post-World War II era, died today in Rome. She was 95.
Image
A turkey and a fawn shared a close encounter caught on a trap camera in the Wisconsin wilderness.
Credit...
WI DNR Snapshot Wisconsin
9. Humans might be making interspecies encounters more likely.
Researchers analyzed images captured by wildlife cameras across Wisconsin and found that wild animals of different species were more likely to bump into one another in human-altered landscapes, like farms, than in more undisturbed locations, such as a natural forest. (Think raccoons and a deer sharing a watering hole, or a skunk meeting a family of otters.)
The finding suggests 
that human disturbance can squeeze animals closer together
. That interspecies tightening could be making it harder for prey to evade predators, intensifying competition for resources or increasing the risk of interspecies disease transmission, the researchers said.
Image
Jerald Cooper in his Cincinnati studio.
Credit...
Madeleine Hordinski for The New York Times
10. And finally, 
redefining midcentury modern architecture.
Jerald Cooper, who lives in Cincinnati, wants to recognize and preserve what he calls “hood century,” modern architecture and interior design that have added to the aesthetic and culture of many Black communities.
His aim is to 
make architecture and design more accessible by using layman’s language to break down barriers
 typically set up by white academics with advanced degrees, and to educate people who are now empowered through social media to comment on the structural beauty of modernist architecture. And, ultimately, to preserve it.
Or, as Cooper would put it, “same documentary, different language.”
Have an elegant night.
Brent Lewis compiled photos for this briefing. 
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
Want to catch up on past briefings? 
You can browse them here
.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.
Here are 
today’s Mini Crossword
, 
Spelling Bee
 and 
Wordle
. If you’re in the mood to play more, 
find all our games here
.