You’re reading the Morning Briefing: Asia Pacific Edition newsletter.  
Get what you need to know to start your day. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Image
My colleagues verified videos that showed tense standoffs between workers and the police at Covid test kit factories.
China’s ‘zero Covid’ workers revolt
Mass testing was a cornerstone of China’s pandemic strategy. But now that the country has abandoned its strict “zero Covid” controls, it’s no longer in high demand. Companies that amassed fortunes making the test kits and analyzing results have begun instituting layoffs or pay cuts.
Former employees are caught in the middle. This month, frustrated by their sudden loss of wages, 
people who once worked in pandemic-control industries started to revolt
.
Hundreds of protesters in Chongqing, a southwestern city, chanted “pay me back” as they forced police officers in riot gear to retreat, and spilled thousands of tests on the ground. In Hangzhou, an eastern city, witnesses said angry workers climbed up on the roof of a test kit factory and threatened to jump to protest unpaid furloughs.
The disputes could portend more unrest. Factories, owed money by governments, are strapped for cash amid the broader slowdown. One expert said that workers have next to no recourse to resolve their grievances other than to lash out.
Economy:
 One report suggested that 
mass testing in large cities
 accounted for about 1.3 percent of China’s economic output.
Omicron:
 The variant made mass testing financially unsustainable. Some local governments, facing the economic slowdown, struggled to pay for the millions of free swabs that residents had to take almost every day.
Image
Rishi Sunak, Britain’s prime minister, visited NATO troops in Estonia last month.
Credit...
Pool photo by Henry Nicholls
Britain pushes for aid to Ukraine
Britain is 
leading the push to send more Western military aid to Ukraine
, as fears rise that Russia will soon begin a new offensive.
Yesterday, Britain 
confirmed plans to send 14 tanks
 and a package of other sophisticated military equipment
 
to Ukraine in the coming weeks. Later this week, two top British officials will visit the U.S., Canada, Germany and other NATO allies to discuss closer coordination on sanctions against Russia and military aid to Ukraine.
Only months ago, 
such aid was considered taboo
; Western countries resisted sending powerful arms to Ukraine for fear that it would prompt Russia to escalate 
the grinding war
. But one expert said that Russia appeared to be mobilizing hundreds of thousands of new conscripts, which accelerated discussions about giving Kyiv the tanks.
What’s next:
 Britain said it would begin training Ukrainian forces on the tanks and guns in the coming days. Thousands of Ukrainian troops have 
trained in Britain over the last six months
.
Dnipro:
 The death toll from Russia’s strike on an apartment building on Saturday has 
risen to 40
. The U.N. has confirmed the deaths of 
more than 7,000 Ukrainian civilians
 in the war, but said the full toll was far higher.
Germany: 
Britain’s announcement could increase pressure on Germany to 
send its coveted Leopard 2 tanks
 to Ukraine, or at least allow other European countries to do so. Yesterday, the defense minister 
resigned after heavy criticism
 of her handling of the war and the 
slow progress of a planned military buildup
.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
Image
Nepal’s government appointed a committee to investigate the crash.
Credit...
Yunish Gurung/Associated Press
A couple lost to Nepal’s crashes
In 2006, a pilot for a small Nepali airline died in a plane crash. His widow, Anju Khatiwada, vowed to continue his dream. She gave up her nursing career, despite her family’s opposition, and trained as a pilot in the U.S. In 2010, she began flying for the same company, Yeti Airlines.
On Sunday, 
the 44-year-old captain met the same fate as her husband
 when the propeller plane she was co-piloting crashed near the landing strip in Pokhara, a vacation destination. At least 68 other people died in 
the crash
, Nepal’s deadliest air disaster in decades.
Her family’s tragedy is part of a worrying pattern. Nepal, whose mountains make for difficult terrain, has had more than 30 deadly air crashes since the early 1990s, according to the 
Aviation Safety Network
. Last year, an audit expressed concerns about shortcomings in air navigation, investigation of incidents and the organizational structure necessary for implementing safety standards.
Details:
 A 
video of the plane
, moments before it went down, showed one wing drop suddenly as the plane descended in clear skies. 
Tourism:
 Nepal, one of the poorest countries in the region, relies on visitors. But experts and officials have long been concerned about airports’ ability to meet post-pandemic demand.
THE LATEST NEWS
Around the World
Image
Matteo Messina Denaro, right, was arrested in Sicily.
Credit...
Agence France-Presse, via Ufficio Stampa Comando Generale
Italian police 
arrested the mafia boss
 Matteo Messina Denaro yesterday. He was Italy’s most wanted fugitive and had spent three decades on the run.
A police officer in London pleaded guilty to 
49 charges of sexual abuse
, including rape, committed over a 17-year period.
After an unusually warm winter, Swiss and German ski towns are realizing that 
their days may be numbered
. “I think we have to see that something is dying,” one guesthouse manager said.
Sports
Image
Nick Kyrgios dropped out a little more than 24 hours ahead of his scheduled first-round match.
Credit...
Mark Baker/Associated Press
Nick Kyrgios 
withdrew from the Australian Open
 yesterday with a knee injury.
Australia is again 
embracing Novak Djokovic
 after it barred him from entry.
Kodai Senga, a Japanese pitcher, has signed with the New York Mets. His signature, “
the ghost fork
,” is a devastating weapon that delivers on the hype.
A Morning Read
Image
Yuan-tsung Chen’s latest book is “The Secret Listener: An Ingenue in Mao’s Court.”
Credit...
Anthony Kwan for The New York Times
Yuan-tsung Chen, a memoirist, endured Mao Zedong’s worst excesses. At 93, she hopes that her recollections will 
help China confront historical wrongs
 — and avoid repeating them.
In her recent book, she has turned her attention to Hong Kong, her adopted home, where Chinese history is being rewritten once again. “I know the past fairly well and I can see something is coming,” Chen told The Times.
Lives lived:
 Gina Lollobrigida was an Italian movie star who became one of the post-World War II era’s first major European sex symbols. 
She died at 95
.
ARTS AND IDEAS
Chatbots go to college
Image
Colleges and universities have been reluctant to ban the new chatbot because administrators doubt the move would be effective.
Credit...
Todd Anderson for The New York Times
ChatGPT, a chatbot that was released in November, generates eerily articulate and nuanced text in response to prompts.
Some use it to write letters or poems. But college students have also started deploying the new technology to 
complete their assignments for them
. “I don’t know about y’all but ima just have ChatGPT take my finals,” one student said in a 
video
. “Have fun studying.”
In response, some professors at U.S. colleges are restructuring their classes. They’re relying more on oral exams, group work and handwritten assignments. They’re de-emphasizing take-home, open-book assignments. And more than 6,000 professors have signed up for a program that claims to quickly detect A.I.-generated text.
One professor of philosophy told The Times that he plans to weave ChatGPT into lessons by asking students to evaluate the chatbot’s responses. “What’s happening in class is no longer going to be, ‘Here are some questions — let’s talk about it between us human beings,’” he said. Instead, “it’s like, ‘What also does this alien robot think?’”
Related:
 Kevin Roose, a technology columnist for The Times, argues that 
ChatGPT’s benefits as an educational tool outweigh its risks
.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
David Malosh for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon Andrews.
Say “ciao” to 
your new pasta alla Norma
.
What to Read
“
Masters of the Lost Land
” investigates greed and destruction in the Amazon.
What to Watch
Our picks for 
international streaming movies
 include “About Love,” an intimate diary-doc from India, and “The Sign Painter,” a Latvian love story set in World War II.
Interiors
Bold colors are 
making a comeback
 in Danish design after years of austerity.
The Ethicist
An ex-husband sexually abused his sister as a child. Should his 
partner have been warned
?
Now Time to Play
Play the 
Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Marries (four letters).
Here are the 
Wordle
 and the 
Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. See you next time. — Amelia
P.S. Remy Tumin, who wrote our U.S. Evening Briefing, is 
joining The Times’s breaking news team as a reporter
. Congratulations to Remy!
There is no new episode of “The Daily” today. On “
The Ezra Klein Show
,” a Harvard professor dismantles the “convenient myth” of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The U.S. marked his birthday yesterday.
You can reach Amelia and the team at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.