(Want to get this newsletter in your inbox? Here’s 
the sign-up
.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest at the end of Tuesday.
Image
The U.S. aircraft, an MQ-9 surveillance drone, had taken off from its base in Romania this morning.
Credit...
John Moore/Getty Images
1. A Russian jet collided with a U.S. drone over the Black Sea, U.S. officials said.
The American surveillance drone was 
forced to crash into international waters
 today after its propeller was struck by one of two Russian fighter jets that were trying to intercept the unmanned aircraft, according to U.S. officials. 
Russia denied that there had been a collision, saying the drone’s own maneuvers caused it to crash. If confirmed, it would be the first known physical contact between the two nations’ militaries as a result of the war in Ukraine.
Before the collision, the jets dumped fuel on the drone, which was conducting routine operations in international airspace, the officials said. “This incident demonstrates a lack of competence in addition to being unsafe and unprofessional,” U.S. European Command said in a statement. 
A White House spokesman said that it was 
not uncommon
 for Russian aircraft to intercept American drones, but that this was the first to result “in the splashing of one of our drones.” Officials said it was a “complete loss.”
Image
The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank was precipitated by a bank run.
Credit...
 T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times
2. The Justice Department is said to have opened an investigation into the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.
The federal inquiry into the failed California lender, which was taken over by federal regulators last week after its customers rushed to pull their money out of the bank, two people with knowledge of the matter said. 
The investigation is in its early stages and it is unclear what the prosecutors are focusing on, but one potential item could be 
sales of company shares by several executives
 in the weeks before the bank’s failure, several legal experts said. Separately, the S.E.C. also opened an investigation.
Elsewhere in the industry, 
executives finally had a chance to take a breath today. After days of tumult caused an almost sector-wide panic, 
shares of several midsize banks rebounded
.
For more: 
Washington remains haunted by the 2008 financial crisis. 
The idea of more bailouts has leaders of both parties spooked
.
Image
3. Consumer prices eased modestly last month, keeping pressure on the Fed.
New inflation data — which shows 
prices rising 6 percent through February
 — has provided the central bank with no easy options as it seeks to simultaneously cool inflation and help return the banking industry to normalcy.
Some of the more worrying parts of the data, including a slight monthly increase in so-called core prices, provided the Fed with reasons to further raise rates to push prices back down. But analysts remain 
uncertain whether policymakers would risk significantly hiking rates
 if it could mean further straining the pressure on banks.
In other economic news, 
Meta — facing tech industry headwinds — said it would 
lay off another 10,000 employees, roughly 13 percent of its work force
.
Image
4. OpenAI released a new chatbot that ups the ante in the race for A.I. supremacy.
Four months after ChatGPT captivated the tech industry with its ability to answer complex questions and mimic human emotions, OpenAI 
unveiled the next iteration of the technology, called GPT-4
.
The new tech has notable improvements: The bot can now ace a bar exam, wow doctors with its medical advice and describe images in detail. Yet it 
still has some of the same issues
, including problems discussing the future and answering some questions with entirely made-up results.
In related news, 
what began as
 
a gold rush into A.I. start-ups has become a 
full-blown mania
.
Image
President Biden has vowed to seek passage of a new assault weapons ban.
Credit...
Haiyun Jiang/The New York Times
5. President Biden issued an executive order to strengthen background checks for guns.
The president, who has so far failed in his effort to push Congress to pass new gun restrictions, 
announced the new policies in Monterey Park, Calif.
, where a gunman killed 11 people in January at a dance studio. 
Biden’s new order is a handful of steps designed to improve enforcement of existing laws, including making sure gun dealers are complying with existing background check laws. But the president’s more significant proposals are constrained by the constitutional right to bear arms and a political system that has so far refused to make progress on his demands.
Image
6. Both extreme rain and extreme drought appear to be growing more common.
Over the last few years, different regions of the planet have experienced both 
the wettest and the driest stretches of the last two decades
.
The data comes from a new study that used satellites that can measure fluctuations in water across the globe that would otherwise be invisible to the naked eye. While the study only included 20 recent years of observations — short in terms of climate time scales — the finding strengthens the possibility that, as the world warms, we will see wetter and drier global extremes.
In other weather news, 
another powerful atmospheric river is threatening to deliver 
strong winds, heavy rain and a new round of floods
 to California today. Meanwhile, a major storm continues 
to blanket parts of the Northeast in snow
.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
Are you prepared? 
These are the essential 
tools to ride out a winter storm
.
Image
“It was so devastating what happened to me that I don’t want that to happen to anyone else,” Marlena Fejzo said.
Credit...
Maggie Shannon for The New York Times
7. Her doctor said her illness was in her head. She was determined to find out the truth.
When Marlena Fejzo was pregnant, she suffered from hyperemesis gravidarum, a rare and potentially severe condition whose hallmark symptoms include nausea and vomiting so severe that it can cause hospitalization. Yet her doctor chalked up her issues to psychological effects, including a ploy to gain the sympathy of her husband.
Her doctor’s dismissive attitude and the lack of research about hyperemesis prompted Fejzo, who is now a scientist at the University of Southern California, to make it her life’s work 
to find the condition’s true cause
.
In other health news, 
the Biden administration said it would require utilities to remove two 
cancer-causing “forever chemicals”
 from drinking water.
Image
The U.S. Geological Survey said pythons are one of the world’s “most intractable invasive-species management issues.”
Credit...
Cristobal Herrera-Ulashkevich/EPA, via Shutterstock
8. Florida’s pythons are becoming even more invasive.
Despite extensive efforts to stop them from proliferating, 
the giant snakes have been making their way up the state
. A new study found that they had reached West Palm Beach and Fort Myers, threatening ever-larger stretches of the ecosystem.
Little is known about how long the pythons live in the wild, how often they reproduce or even how they travel, but scientists believe that the nonnative apex predators have helped decimate populations of wading birds, marsh rabbits and white-tailed deer.
Another problem in Florida: 
A giant blob of seaweed — 
spanning thousands of miles and visible from outer space
 — is expected to come ashore in the coming months, fouling beaches over the busy summer season.
Image
Chili
Credit...
Linda Xiao for The New York Times
9. What to do tonight:
Cook: 
Times readers said these 24 recipes were 
requested on repeat by their kids
.
Listen: 
The star violinist Hilary Hahn shows 
how much practice it takes to become great
.
Read: 
A New Yorker writer wrote a book about mastering new skills by 
learning how to box, dance and bake bread
.
Watch: 
“The Mole” is one of the 
50 best TV shows on Netflix right now
.
Investigate: 
Here’s how to tell if a health condition is 
causing your fatigue
.
Book: 
These vacation spots make for 
refreshing spring getaways
.
Image
Credit...
Prospektor
10. And finally, 
a dress that survived three centuries underwater.
The silk dress was found in the wreckage of a ship known as the Palmwood, which 
sank off the Dutch island of Texel around the year 1650
. Its almost perfectly preserved condition has generated considerable interest: It has recently become the focus of a television show and a podcast, and thousands of visitors have flocked to its new home at a Dutch museum.
Researchers are trying to figure out who owned the garment. Experts have suggested that the clothes belonged to a theater company that was fleeing England, or perhaps a wealthy family escaping the Thirty Years’ War. The answers, however, are probably still hidden underwater.
Have an elegant night.
Brent Lewis compiled photos for this briefing. 
Want to catch up on past briefings? 
You can browse them here
.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.
Here are 
today’s Mini Crossword
, 
Spelling Bee
 and 
Wordle
. If you’re in the mood to play more, 
find all our games here
.