Image
Workers reinforced a checkpoint in Kyiv with sandbags.
Credit...
Emile Ducke for The New York Times
One year of war
Ukraine is 
bracing for potential Russian attacks
 timed to the anniversary of the war today. President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has warned of a symbolic “revenge” assault from Russia around the one-year mark of Moscow's invasion.
 
Schools across Ukraine are 
holding classes remotely
, people have been advised to avoid large gatherings and additional security measures are being put in place. 
We have updates here.
One year on, virtually no one in Ukraine has avoided the violence, destruction and bloodshed of the war, which has killed tens of thousands, left millions homeless and turned entire cities into ruins. But the foreboding that gripped Ukraine in the days before the invasion has long faded.
Now, many people in Ukraine said that they had found strength in the shared sacrifice and 
the collective struggle for survival
. Some have become accustomed to the air-raid sirens and warnings. One 30-year-old Ukrainian said those things had become a part of everyday life, “like brushing my teeth.”
A global look:
 The U.S. tried to isolate Russia by imposing sweeping sanctions along with its Western partners. But the rest of the world has taken a more neutral approach to the war, including India and China, 
as our graphic shows
.
The latest on weapons:
 Poland said that it was close to finalizing 
a deal worth $10 billion
 to buy additional U.S.-made HIMARS rocket launchers and related equipment, as part of a rapid military buildup. As the West scrambles to find munitions for Ukraine’s Soviet-era weapons, it is 
turning to arms factories across Eastern Europe
.
China: 
Janet Yellen, the U.S. treasury secretary, 
warned Beijing against helping Russia
 evade sanctions, at a meeting of G20 finance ministers in India. She also said that the U.S. planned to unveil additional sanctions on Russia.
Image
Officials sorted voter cards in Lagos last month, ahead of the election.
Credit...
Pius Utomi Ekpei/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Nigeria votes
Nigerians head to the polls tomorrow to choose a new president in the 
most wide-open race in years
. The presidential candidates for the two major parties, which have alternated power for over two decades, are facing 
a surprise, third-party challenger
.
In the lead-up to voting day, a decision by Nigeria’s government to replace its currency 
caused chaos
. Voters are furious at the governing party over a shortage of new bank notes, and protests could disrupt voting in parts of the country.
Lynsey Chutel, our Briefing writer based in Johannesburg, spoke with our West Africa bureau chief, Ruth Maclean, who is in Abuja to cover the election. Here’s what Ruth said about what’s at stake.
“When I interviewed Peter Obi, one of the three main candidates, the other day, he described this as an ‘existential election.’ I think that’s how many Nigerians feel, particularly young Nigerians who were involved in the 
EndSARS movement
 a couple of years ago, protesting against police violence, but also against everything they saw going wrong in Nigeria. Many of them have left or are trying to leave the country. If their chosen candidate wins, maybe some will stay, or come back,” Ruth said.
Africa’s median age is much younger than the global average. In Nigeria, half of the population of more than 200 million is 18 and under.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
“If Nigeria is safe and prosperous, it brightens life for a whole generation of Africans,” Ruth said.
Image
A protest against health care cuts in Wuhan last week.
Credit...
Keith Bradsher/The New York Times
Health care protests in China
Thousands of seniors in China 
are protesting abrupt cuts to their health insurance
. The changes were enacted by local governments, and highlight their struggle to recover from the costs of implementing the central government’s expensive “zero Covid” policies for nearly three years.
One of the most immediate problems is that municipal insurance funds are running out of money. To free up cash, municipalities have started contributing much less to personal health accounts, the insurance that middle-class people use to pay for medicine and outpatient care. Seniors are most vulnerable to the changes, which include 
higher costs and reduced benefits
.
Protests have taken place in the northeastern city of Dalian, in Guangzhou, and in Wuhan in central China, where the Covid pandemic began at the end of 2019. Wuhan’s hospitals responded with an effective but expensive effort to contain the outbreak, and are now implementing some of the sharpest cuts to personal health accounts.
Context:
 The cuts are a symptom of China’s overlapping economic struggles. The country is aging rapidly, and more retirees mean more health care needs. Yet the main source of municipal revenue has shriveled as real estate developers buy less public land because of a housing shakeout.
THE LATEST NEWS
Asia Pacific
Image
Rescuers at the site of the mine collapse in northern China’s Inner Mongolia.
Credit...
CCTV, via Associated Press
Rescuers are working to save 
53 coal miners who are missing
 after a mine collapsed in northern China.
The European Commission 
banned TikTok
 from most of its employees’ phones, citing security concerns.
The temporary suspension of Peter Bol, an Australian Olympic runner, over doping allegations has 
opened a national debate
 over testing procedures.
Around the World
Lawmakers in Mexico 
gutted the country’s election watchdog
, a change that comes ahead of next year’s presidential contest.
Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were 
subpoenaed by the special counsel
 investigating Donald Trump.
The U.S. nominated 
Ajay Banga
, the former chief executive of Mastercard, to lead the World Bank.
Other Big Stories
Maternal mortality rates have fallen in many countries across Asia, but 
have increased
 in the U.S. and Europe, the W.H.O. reported.
Turkey is 
scrutinizing Turkish builders
 after the recent earthquake that killed more than 43,000 people in the country.
A British pilot program of a 
four-day workweek
 won converts: 92 percent of participating companies plan to continue with the approach.
The Week in Culture
Harvey Weinstein was sentenced to 
16 years in prison for sex crimes
 in Los Angeles.
Alec Baldwin pleaded 
not guilty
 to involuntary manslaughter for the fatal shooting of a cinematographer on a film set.
The singer R. Kelly was 
sentenced to 20 years in prison
 for child sex crimes.
A Morning Read
Image
The new drinks are branded Oleato, which can mean oiled or greaseproof in Italian.
Credit...
Valentina Za/Reuters
Starbucks is testing out a new ingredient that it believes will draw the Italian masses to its coffee: 
olive oil
. A golden foam espresso martini is one of five oily options.
ARTS AND IDEAS
ChatGPT’s scary banality
When the movies imagined A.I., they pictured the wrong disaster, 
our critic A.O. Scott writes
. Instead of the chilling rationality of HAL in “2001: A Space Odyssey,” we got the drearier, very human awfulness of Microsoft’s Sydney. Because when real chatbots finally came about, they learned from what humans have expressed online, which can often be deceitful, irrational and plain old mean.
“We’re more or less reconciled to the reality that machines are, in some ways, smarter than we are,” Scott writes. “We also enjoy the fantasy that they might turn out to be more sensitive. We’re therefore not prepared for the possibility that they might be chaotic, unstable and resentful — as messy as we are, or maybe more so.”
In China:
 Tech companies making chatbots are 
facing hurdles from the government
.
And in the arts:
 Science fiction magazines are being flooded with stories written by chatbots. They’re “
bad in spectacular ways
,” one editor said.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Colin Clark for The New York Times
For a weekend project, make 
Swedish cardamom buns
.
What to Read
“Win Every Argument” and “Say the Right Thing” 
offer different approaches to talking to others
.
What to Watch
In “
Yanagawa
,” by the Chinese filmmaker Zhang Lu, two brothers reconnect over a lost love.
Health
Learn about 
the wild world inside your gut
.
Now Time to Play
Play the 
Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Bashful (three letters).
Here are the 
Wordle
 and the 
Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Have a lovely weekend! — Amelia and Lynsey
P.S. Will Shortz, our puzzle editor, talked to The New Yorker 
about his life in crosswords
.
“
The Daily
” is on a U.S. Supreme Court case about social media.
If you ever want to reach me, I’m available at 
briefing@nytimes.com
. Thanks! 