(Want to get this newsletter in your inbox? Here’s 
the sign-up
.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest at the end of Friday.
Image
Former President Donald Trump remains at his Florida residence, Mar-a-Lago.
Credit...
Doug Mills/The New York Times
1. Donald Trump is set to turn himself in on Tuesday. What happens next is unclear.
A day after becoming the first former president to face criminal charges, Trump 
prepared to surrender to prosecutors
 in Manhattan. One of his lawyers said he would not take a plea deal and was prepared to go to trial.
The former president, who 
remains the front-runner
 for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, is expected to travel to New York City to be officially arraigned on Tuesday on charges related to his role in paying hush money to a woman who claimed she had an extramarital affair with him. At his arraignment, the 
indictment containing the exact charges against him will be unsealed
.
In preparation for the arrest, security measures are being put in place all over the city. 
Metal barriers now ring Trump Tower in Midtown
 and the Criminal Courts Building in Lower Manhattan, and the N.Y.P.D. told all of its officers to be “prepared for deployment.” Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Trump ally who said she planned to go to New York on Tuesday, told her followers, “We MUST protest the unconstitutional WITCH HUNT!”
For more: 
Here’s what we know about the indictment
, and here are the prominent arguments both 
for and against the charges
.
Image
Alvin Bragg, the Manhattan district attorney, presented the case against Trump to the grand jury.
Credit...
Dave Sanders for The New York Times
2. The indictment of Trump has drawn sharp partisan responses
.
Elected Republican leaders, along with conservative commentators, have 
erupted in outrage
 over the past 24 hours in reaction to the indictment of the former president. Many of his allies have taken to criticizing Alvin Bragg, the Manhattan district attorney, whose office 
accused House Republicans
 of attempting to interfere in the case.
Democrats reacted with 
feelings of jubilation and vindication
 after some spent the past few years calling for Trump to be indicted. For some, a sense of anxiety set in about the substance of the charges and the chance that it could heighten Trump’s standing in his party.
Trump — who attacked Bragg as a “disgrace” and denounced the case as “political persecution” — has sought to capitalize on the criminal charges to energize his base. But the stigma of being a defendant is a profound change for a global celebrity who has a history of deriding others accused of wrongdoing.
For more: 
My colleague Peter Baker took a step back to analyze 
the historic nature of the indictment of a former president
.
Image
A new Ukrainian recruit practiced combat training during a drill in the Kyiv region on Sunday.
Credit...
Mauricio Lima for The New York Times
3. Both Russia and Ukraine stepped up recruitment as they prepare for a long war.
Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president, signed a decree yesterday authorizing a larger than normal spring military draft. The new recruits, while unlikely to be sent to the battlefield immediately, will 
provide a boost to Russia’s army
, which has suffered immense casualties.
At the same time, the Ukrainian military is building out a new force called the Offensive Guard. After the government put up recruiting posters and billboards showing tough-looking soldiers, officials said that they had received more than 35,000 applications.
Also, 
we spoke with 
four Ukrainian convicts who were taken by the Russians
 during their withdrawal from the city of Kherson.
Image
Protesters gathered yesterday outside the Tennessee State Capitol to call for an end to gun violence.
Credit...
Cheney Orr/Reuters
4. After a devastating school shooting, Nashville is forced to ponder its divisions.
The Southern city has long taken pride in the concept of “Nashville nice,” and it thrived as a place where political divisions felt beside the point. But after this week’s deadly shooting at an elementary school, where three 9-year-olds and three staff members were killed, 
intense divisions became impossible to ignore
.
A Democratic state senator representing the city laced into her Republican colleagues for
 
loosening the state’s gun laws when, she said, they should have been tightened. Conservative activists, rejecting that lax gun control was an issue, instead seized on the gender identity of the shooter, who the police said identified as transgender.
“I think it’s a struggle for the soul of Nashville,” said a political strategist there.
In the South, 
a large tornado struck near Little Rock, Ark., this afternoon. The storm is part of 
a dangerous weather system hitting the middle of the country
.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
Image
Fewer than 2 percent of heavy trucks sold in the U.S. last year were all-electric.
Credit...
Caroline Brehman/EPA, via Shutterstock
5. California will require half of all heavy trucks sold beginning in 2035 to be electric.
In a pioneering plan designed to 
cut emissions from some of the worst polluters on the road
, the state is mandating that in 12 years, no more than 50 percent of garbage trucks, tractor-trailers and cement mixers sold there can be equipped with combustion engines. The Biden administration today granted California the legal authority to take such a step, which goes beyond federal requirements.
California passed legislation last year requiring all new passenger vehicles sold there to be electric by the same target year. The moves propel California to the forefront of the race to eliminate emissions from transportation, the economic sector that generates the most greenhouse gases.
Also, 
the Biden administration shortened the list of 
cars eligible for the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit
. Officials hope the change will reduce reliance on China.
Image
“It’s an exciting moment,” said Google chief executive Sundar Pichai.
Credit...
Erik Tanner for The New York Times
6. Google’s C.E.O. is glad that A.I. is having a moment. He is also a bit worried.
Sundar Pichai, the head of the search giant, admitted that Google was lagging behind its competitors in the race to develop artificial intelligence tools. He described Google’s recent chatbot release as pitting a “souped-up Civic” against more powerful cars.
But Pichai also said there was 
good reason to go slower
. While the technology “is going to be incredibly beneficial,” he said, it “clearly has the potential to cause harm in a deep way.”
In related news, 
Italy 
imposed a temporary ban on ChatGPT
, citing privacy concerns.
Image
Georgia Amoore scored a combined 96 points in Virginia Tech’s first four N.C.A.A. tournament games.
Credit...
Kirby Lee/USA Today Sports, via Reuters
7. The N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament will be narrowed down to two teams tonight.
At 7 p.m. Eastern, No. 1 Virginia Tech — 
led by guard Georgia Amoore
 — will look to hold off No. 3 L.S.U. Then at 9:30 p.m. comes the battle of heavyweights: The national player of the year, Caitlin Clark, and her No. 3 Iowa team will face off against an undefeated No. 1 South Carolina squad that has been 
dominant under Coach Dawn Staley
.
Our columnist wrote about the 
rising popularity and profitability of the women’s game
, where players like Clark and South Carolina’s Aliyah Boston have attained a stardom once reserved for men’s players.
For more: 
Pep bands follow their schools’ teams around the country. 
Here’s what it’s like
.
Image
Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston star in “Murder Mystery 2.”
Credit...
Scott Yamano/Netflix
8. Adam Sandler has grown up (mostly).
Sandler is well known for his juvenile funnyman roles in films like “Happy Gilmore” and “Waterboy.” At 56, he has turned into a different kind of performer. In “Uncut Gems,” his 2019 film, Sandler embodies a deeper world-weariness that borders on exhaustion.
Our critic writes that he 
replicates that intensity in the comedy “Murder Mystery” and its sequel
, “Murder Mystery 2,” which came out on Netflix today. Both films, while less serious, are greatly bolstered by the depth and nuance of Sandler’s portrayal as a police detective longing for a promotion.
In a review, 
Brandon Yu wrote that “Murder Mystery 2” is the kind of movie 
worth putting on while making dinner.
Image
Credit...
Ryan Liebe for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Barrett Washburne.
9. What to do this weekend:
Cook: 
This 
egg salad recipe
 may be the only one you ever need.
Listen: 
A new song from the British pop star Georgia is among 
this week’s top songs
.
Budget: 
Here are a dozen ways to 
save on family travel
.
Shop: 
Many sneaker features are just fads. 
Here’s what you really need in a running shoe
.
Compete: 
Take 
this week’s News Quiz
.
Play: 
Today’s 
Spelling Bee
, 
Wordle
 and 
Mini Crossword
.
Image
Rachel Garrick took up knitting in 2012 to help manage the pain from chronic osteoarthritis.
Credit...
Andrew Testa for The New York Times
10. And finally, 
is it rude to knit at work?
In this hybrid work era, some employees have noticed colleagues stitching away during meetings rather than putting their needles aside. It has led to some debate. Knitters contend they are not behaving inappropriately.
In fact, 
knitting sharpens their attention
, they say, and allows them to be more present during meetings. Medical science backs them up: The fine-motor movement required for knitting, crocheting or doodling activates the same parts of the brain used for focus.
Have a stimulating weekend.
Brent Lewis compiled photos for this briefing. 
Want to catch up on past briefings? 
You can browse them here
.
Have any feedback? Let us know at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.