Image
The crew of the U.S.S. Delaware, a nuclear-powered submarine.
Credit...
Samuel Corum for The New York Times
Australia to buy U.S. nuclear subs
As part of an ambitious defense deal between Australia, Britain and the U.S., Australia will 
buy up to five U.S.-made nuclear-powered submarines,
 to be delivered in the 2030s. The deal deepens a three-way defense agreement aimed at reinforcing American-led military dominance of the Asia-Pacific region to counter China.
The arrangement adds to a 2021 security pact between the three countries known as 
AUKUS
. It would also involve Australia buying a new class of submarines with British designs and American technology, and rotating U.S. attack submarines through Perth, in Western Australia, by 2027.
That would help cover a potential gap in Australia’s undersea abilities as its existing six diesel submarines age out of service. The deal also includes long-term plans to cooperate on artificial intelligence, quantum computing, cyberwarfare and missiles. President Biden plans to host the leaders of Australia and Britain in San Diego on Monday, where the three leaders plan to announce the next phase of their partnership.
Diplomacy:
 The arrangement would likely require Australia to heavily depend on the U.S. Navy, which could limit its margin for discretion. Australia pulled out of a deal to buy French-made submarines in 2021, which 
caused a diplomatic storm
. And China could view the moves as a provocation.
Related:
 A top U.S. intelligence official warned that China thinks that it can only make itself the pre-eminent power in Asia, and a major power globally, 
by diminishing U.S. influence
 — one reason China is partnering with Russia.
Image
Emergency workers extinguished a fire at the site of a Russian missile strike in Kyiv.
Credit...
Gleb Garanich/Reuters
A major Russian attack
Russia 
launched its biggest aerial attack in weeks yesterday
. The assault included six of the country’s newest hypersonic missiles, which fly at more than five times the speed of sound and are almost impossible for Ukraine to shoot down. Russia said the strikes were 
retaliation
 for an incursion last week by a pro-Ukrainian group into its 
Bryansk region
.
The use of hypersonic missiles and a higher than typical number of ballistic missiles helped Russia counter Ukraine’s increasingly effective air defense systems: Of the 81 Russian missiles, 47 hit targets, Ukraine said. That’s a far higher success rate than in other recent major missile attacks. The attack killed at least nine people across the country, knocked out power in several areas and damaged three electrical plants.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
A Ukrainian Air Force spokesman said Russia fired the largest number of its hypersonic missiles to date — 
more than a tenth of what is believed to be its total arsenal
. He suggested Russia turned to the weapons, which were developed to breach U.S. antimissile defense systems, because it needed guaranteed hits after Ukraine previously downed about 70 percent of Russia’s older cruise missiles.
Nuclear:
 The strikes temporarily forced the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant to switch to 
diesel generators
. “One day our luck will run out,” the head of the U.N.’s nuclear agency said in a plea, referring to 
the possibility of a nuclear accident
.
Image
The loud and colorful jeepneys are ubiquitous in the Philippines.
Credit...
Jes Aznar for The New York Times
The end of Filipino jeepneys?
The Philippine government 
wants to phase out jeepneys
, the iconic open-air buses that have served commuters for decades, and replace them with minibuses. Drivers fear they can’t afford the transition and not having a vehicle would mean the end of their livelihood.
This week, transportation unions organized a brief work stoppage to resist the plan, which led schools to suspend in-person classes and businesses to plan for remote work. Drivers are angry that the government wants them to pay for the replacements, which cost $43,600 — and that the government wants them to do so through a profit-sharing cooperative, which they say would bury them in debt.
The plan was introduced in 2017 by former President Rodrigo Duterte, who said the phaseout would help improve Manila’s poor air quality and ease gridlocked traffic. He once announced that the phaseout would happen by 2018, but the country’s transportation department pushed back the deadline after drivers organized a strike.
Background:
 Jeepneys are named for their origins as U.S. military jeeps.
THE LATEST NEWS
Around the World
Image
Thousands of demonstrators disrupted traffic in several Israeli cities.
Credit...
Ronen Zvulun/Reuters
A 
new wave of mass protests
 against Israel’s proposed judicial overhaul blocked the road to the main airport.
Georgia’s governing party 
withdrew its “foreign agents” bill
, which critics said mimicked a Russian law, after widespread protests.
Mozambique is bracing for 
another deadly hit from Cyclone Freddy
, which is on track to be the longest-lasting tropical cyclone on record.
The rise of illnesses like diabetes and hypertension could erase African countries’ 
gains in life expectancy
.
U.S. News
Image
Credit...
Doug Mills/The New York Times
President Biden 
released his budget plan
. It’s probably dead on arrival because Republicans control the House. But it will set the stakes for a 
debt default
 fight.
The military 
repatriated a Saudi engineer
 who was held without trial at Guantánamo Bay for more than 20 years.
“I hate him passionately”: Tucker Carlson’s texts show contempt for Donald Trump. 
Read the messages
.
The Week in Culture
Image
“I do best when I’m under pressure,” said Martin Schneider, the firefighter.
Credit...
Nina Riggio for The New York Times
The World Baseball Classic, in Tokyo, features top players from around the globe. The Czech Republic’s roster is full of 
guys with regular jobs
: A full-time firefighter will probably pitch to Shohei Ohtani tomorrow.
David Chipperfield, whose designs focus on environmental sustainability and social equity, 
won the Pritzker Prize
, architecture’s top honor.
Cinemas are experimenting with 
charging more for better seats
.
Alan Alda used ChatGPT to write a scene for his classic television show “M*A*S*H.” 
It wasn’t funny
.
A Morning Read
Image
Conveyor-belt sushi is popular in Japan.
Credit...
Kazuhiro Nogi/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
In Japan, “
sushi terrorism
” videos, in which people lick soy sauce bottles or spit on sushi on a conveyor belt, are going viral.
Several popular chains have made changes in an effort to soothe customers’ concerns, like making customers order from a touch-screen. Recently, the police in Nagoya arrested three people who posted a “sushi terrorism” video and held them on suspicion of “forcible obstruction of business.”
Lives lived:
 The photographer Ans Westra created the most comprehensive record of New Zealand’s social history. 
She died at 86
.
ARTS AND IDEAS
Image
Credit...
Allyson Riggs/A24, via Associated Press
The Oscars favorites
Our expert, Kyle Buchanan, predicts that the oddball sci-fi film “Everything Everywhere All at Once” will 
win best picture at the top U.S. movie awards
, which airs at 5 p.m. Sunday in Los Angeles (9 a.m. Monday in Hong Kong, noon in Sydney). Here’s 
how to watch the ceremony
 if you’re not in the U.S.
“Everything Everywhere” is a clear favorite. It has the most nominations, 11 total, and 
won all of Hollywood’s top guild prizes
. (The four other films that have done so went on to win best picture.) Two of its stars, Michelle Yeoh, above, and Ke Huy Quan, are up for best actress and best supporting actor in a year when a 
record number of actors with Asian ancestry
 received nominations.
But “
All Quiet on the Western Front
,” an antiwar film in German, could be 
the surprise victor
: It 
won best film at the BAFTAs
, Britain’s equivalent of the Oscars, and there is a contingent of older voters in the Academy who remain baffled by “Everything Everywhere.”
If you want to make 
your own ballot
, start by watching scenes from eight of the best picture nominees, 
narrated by their directors
.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Chris Simpson for The New York Times
Doria, Japan’s answer to gratin, is 
filling and comforting
. Here’s a 
recipe
.
What to Read
Patricia Highsmith created psychopathic antiheroes. 
Browse a guide to her best books
.
What to Listen to
Three new audiobooks explore 
life’s biggest questions
.
Relationships
Setting 
boundaries with a family member
 is tricky but doable.
Now Time to Play
Play the 
Mini Crossword
, and here’s a clue: Ingredient in beer (four letters).
Here are the 
Wordle
 and the 
Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Have a lovely weekend! — Amelia
P.S. Congratulations to Lynn Lempel, who 
published her 100th Times crossword
 this week.
“
The Daily
” is about child migrants working dangerous jobs in the U.S.
Thank you all for your emails! You can always reach me at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.