You’re reading the Morning Briefing: Asia Pacific Edition newsletter.  
Get what you need to know to start your day. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Image
The U.S. aircraft was an MQ-9 surveillance drone.
Credit...
Fabrizio Villa/Getty Images
A downed drone
A Russian fighter jet 
struck a U.S. surveillance drone
 over the Black Sea, U.S. officials said, hitting its propeller and causing its loss in international waters. Russia denied that there had been a collision, saying the drone’s own maneuvers caused it to crash.
If a collision is confirmed, 
it would be the first known physical contact
 between the two nations’ militaries as a result of the war in Ukraine.
U.S. officials said the drone’s operators brought the craft down in the Black Sea after the collision, which the U.S. military said was the result of “reckless” actions by Russian pilots. The U.S. aircraft was conducting “routine operations in international airspace,” an Air Force general said.
A White House spokesman said that there had been similar “intercepts” by Russian aircraft in recent weeks, calling them “
not an uncommon occurrence,
” but that this was the first to result “in the splashing of one of our drones.” He called the behavior of the Russians “unsafe and unprofessional.” 
Context:
 Russia’s invasion has turned the Black Sea, which is dominated by the Russian Navy, into a battle zone. Ukraine has attacked Russian naval vessels there, most notably in April, when a Ukrainian missile sank the Moskva, the 
flagship of Russia’s Black Sea fleet
.
Response:
 The State Department 
summoned Russia’s ambassador in Washington
 to receive the U.S.’s formal objection over the drone downing.
Other updates:
Russia 
pounded towns
 in the southern Kherson region, Ukrainian officials said, as Ukraine prepared for a counteroffensive.
Russia said it would 
extend a deal allowing Ukraine to export grain
, but only for 60 days rather than the 120 sought by Ukraine.
Yevgeny Prigozhin, the founder of the Wagner private military company, said his force would recede after the battle for Bakhmut. The shift coincides with 
speculation about Prigozhin’s political ambitions
.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
Image
Stocks jumped a day after the turmoil.
Credit...
Justin Lane/EPA, via Shutterstock
U.S. economy seems to stabilize
Markets 
closed up yesterday
, after investors seemed to shrug off the recent collapse of two midsize banks and the threat of a crisis appeared to wane. Fresh inflation data, largely in line with expectations, also added to the 
sense of relief
.
Stocks:
 The S&P 500 jumped 1.7 percent yesterday. Midsize banking stocks, which had 
plummeted
 on Monday, 
rebounded
.
Banks:
 The Justice Department 
opened an investigation
 into the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, my colleagues report.
Inflation:
 It eased to 6 percent on an annual basis, which matched an expected slowdown. But in February inflation rose over the prior month.
Now, 
all eyes are on the Federal Reserve
.
Some of the 
inflation details
 were worrying, including the costs of housing and other goods and services. Generally, that would indicate that the Fed would keep raising rates in hopes of cooling down the economy.
But higher interest rates raise costs for companies, and were at the root of the banking stress. Fewer or smaller rate increases could help stocks to rebound after the 
deep uncertainty
 set off by the banking crisis.
In other business news:
 Meta will 
lay off another 10,000 people
, roughly 13 percent of its workforce.
Image
Xi Jinping was elected to a third term as China’s president on Friday.
Credit...
Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
Xi reins in the economy
Xi Jinping is dealing with China’s economic problems the same way that he has approached issues for most of his decade in power: 
by getting the Communist Party more involved
.
At the annual gathering of China’s national legislature, which ended Monday, Xi introduced a series of 
sweeping changes to the regulatory framework
 that would allow the party to assert more direct control over financial policy and bank regulation.
China’s economy, which is growing near its slowest pace in decades, is teetering from 
a real estate sector in crisis
. Xi needs bankers to 
comply with his vision
 and allocate capital in the ways that China wants its money spent, without jeopardizing the financial system.
Heads are already starting to roll. Last month, Tian Huiyu, the former head of one of China’s biggest commercial lenders, was charged with abuse of power and insider trading. And Bao Fan, a prominent investment banker, 
vanished
.
Challenges: 
The financial sector is struggling to respond to the 
shaky balance sheets of local governments
 — overrun with debt after paying for “zero Covid” policies — and banks that lend to them.
Related:
 China will start issuing visas to foreign tourists again today, 
Reuters reports
.
Analysis:
 On “
The Ezra Klein Show
,” Dan Wang, an expert on U.S.-China competition, explores how China’s growth trajectory halted.
THE LATEST NEWS
Around the World
Image
The three leaders described the naval partnership as a critical way to confront China. 
Credit...
Haiyun Jiang/The New York Times
The leaders of the U.S., Britain and Australia unveiled plans to develop 
a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines
, part of an effort to counter China.
Major protests are expected in France today
 before both houses of Parliament vote tomorrow on President Emmanuel Macron’s pension reform.
The 2026 World Cup will have 48 teams, up from the current 32, and 
24 more games
.
Other Big Stories
Cyclone Freddy, a record-breaking storm, 
killed nearly 200 people
 in Malawi.
A 
multibillion-dollar oil project
 led by French and Chinese companies in Uganda and Tanzania could threaten pristine habitats and Lake Victoria, a source of freshwater for 40 million people.
In Antakya, a Turkish city hit hard by the earthquake, the damage is so profound that officials estimate that 80 percent of the remaining buildings will 
need to be demolished
.
A Morning Read
Image
 
Credit...
Julio Sosa/The Daily Pennsylvanian
Amy Wax, a tenured law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has said publicly that “on average, Blacks have lower cognitive ability than whites” and that the U.S. is “better off with fewer Asians.”
The university is now grappling with a conundrum: Is she exercising her right to free speech, 
or should she be fired
?
Lives lived:
 Dr. Jiang Yanyong, who helped expose China’s SARS crisis in 2003, was celebrated as a hero, then punished for denouncing the Tiananmen Square crackdown. 
He died at 91
.
Masatoshi Ito introduced the American convenience store 7-Eleven to Japan, starting a retail revolution there. 
He died at 98
.
ARTS AND IDEAS
A new chatbot
OpenAI unveiled 
an update to ChatGPT, its revolutionary chatbot
, just four months after the program stunned the tech world with its ability to answer complex questions and mimic human emotions. The update, called GPT-4, ups the ante in 
the lucrative AI arms race
.
My colleagues 
tested GPT-4
. It’s more precise, but it has a few of the old quirks.
Developments:
 It can achieve impressive scores on standardized tests like the SAT, summarize complex news articles and wow doctors with its medical advice. It can answer questions about images; for example, if it’s given a photo of the inside of a fridge, it can suggest recipes based on what’s inside. Its jokes are almost funny.
Challenges:
 GPT-4 still makes things up, a problem that researchers call “hallucination.” It can’t really talk about the future.
“Though it’s an awfully good test taker,” my colleagues write, GPT-4 “is not on the verge of matching human intelligence.”
Society:
 Chatbots are 
shifting the way we learn and work
. But even the most impressive systems tend to complement, not replace, skilled workers. Morgan Stanley Wealth Management is building a system that will serve information from company documents to financial advisers.
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Melina Hammer for The New York Times
Start brining your 
homemade corned beef
 so it’s ready for St. Patrick’s Day this Friday.
What to Read
In “
Y/N,
” a bored young woman in thrall to a K-pop band buys a one-way ticket to Seoul.
What to Watch
In “
Punch
,” by the New Zealand writer-director Welby Ings, a young boxer befriends a queer outcast and shifts his priorities.
Relationships
How to 
make friends as an introvert
.
Now Time to Play
Play the 
Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Gossip (three letters).
Here are the 
Wordle
 and the 
Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. See you next time. — Amelia
P.S. Paul Sonne, who has covered national security for The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal, is our 
newest Russia correspondent
.
“
The Daily
” is on the Silicon Valley Bank collapse.
Send us your feedback. You can reach us at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.