You’re reading the Morning Briefing: Europe Edition newsletter.  
Get what you need to know to start your day. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Image
Repairing electrical lines that were damaged by a missile in Hlevakha, Ukraine.
Credit...
Brendan Hoffman for The New York Times
Russia launches missile strikes across Ukraine
Russia launched 
55 missiles at targets across Ukraine yesterday
, with strikes killing at least 11 people and wounding another 11, the authorities said. A total of 47 missiles were shot down by Ukrainian forces. A day earlier, Germany and the U.S. pledged to send dozens of battle tanks to Ukraine, a major step up in Western military support.
Since October, Russia has fought a campaign to target infrastructure and cripple Ukraine’s power grid. The barrages have sometimes come after Ukrainian successes. “The main goal is energy facilities, providing Ukrainians with light and heat,” Ukraine’s prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, said in a post on Telegram.
For the past week, Russia’s Air Force has been conducting exercises north of Ukraine in Belarus, keeping Ukraine on heightened alert. Air attack sirens have sounded countrywide each time Russian planes take to the air.
Analysis: 
The war has 
raised the influence of Central and Eastern European countries
 with negative views of Russia, amplified calls to expand the E.U. and NATO, and dimmed the power of France and Germany, writes Steven Erlanger, the chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe for The Times.
Image
An Israeli military vehicle in Jenin on Thursday.
Credit...
Raneen Sawafta/Reuters
9 Palestinians killed in West Bank raid
At least nine Palestinians 
were killed by Israeli forces in a raid
 on the occupied West Bank city of Jenin early yesterday, the Palestinian authorities said, prompting the Palestinian Authority to suspend security coordination with Israel. The deaths brought to 30 the number of Palestinians killed in the West Bank in less than a month, including at least five youths under 18.
At least 20 people were injured by gunfire or tear gas inhalation yesterday, with four in critical condition, the Palestinian health ministry said. The ministry and the Palestinian Red Crescent accused Israeli troops of storming the Jenin government hospital and firing tear gas inside the pediatric ward, but Israel denied those accusations.
A gun battle between Israeli troops and Palestinians broke out during the raid, the Israeli military said, adding that it had responded with live rounds after coming under fire. The Israeli military said it was trying to apprehend members of Islamic Jihad who were involved in planning and carrying out attacks on Israeli soldiers and civilians.
Editors’ Picks
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Continue reading the main story
Response: 
Suspension of security coordination with Israel by the Palestinian Authority could limit communication and intelligence sharing between Israeli and Palestinian officials, reduce the Palestinian Authority’s policing of armed Palestinian groups in the West Bank and potentially contribute to direct confrontation between Israeli and Palestinian security personnel.
Image
A spectator wearing the pro-war “Z” logo during a Novak Djokovic match at the Australian Open.
Credit...
Fazry Ismail/EPA, via Shutterstock
European geopolitics at the Australian Open
Geopolitics 
has been everywhere at the Australian Open
 and will be at center stage in the women’s final, which takes place on Saturday, as Elena Rybakina, a native Russian who became a citizen of Kazakhstan five years ago in exchange for financial support, and Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus go head-to-head.
Sabalenka, like other Russian and Belarusian players, has not been permitted to represent her home country — part of the wrangling by professional tennis as it tries to balance its stated opposition to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine with its hopes of rising above the quagmire of international politics.
Earlier this week, videos surfaced of Novak Djokovic’s father, Srdjan, posing with fans who waved a Russian flag and wore the pro-war “Z” logo, and voicing his support for Russia. The week before, organizers of the tournament had prohibited fans from exhibiting any form of the Russian or Belarusian flags or other symbols that supported Russia’s war in Ukraine.
Geopolitics: 
The player Karen Khachanov of Russia has been writing messages of support to the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, a long-disputed enclave that is home to tens of thousands of ethnic Armenians within Azerbaijan’s internationally recognized borders.
Olympics: 
Athletes from Russia and Belarus will compete at the 2024 Olympics in Paris, against the stated wishes of Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky.
THE LATEST NEWS
Around the World
Image
Credit...
The New York Times
China is 
quietly arresting people
 who joined mass protests against the government’s “zero Covid” policy last year.
Around 200 children in Britain, mostly Albanian teenagers who were seeking asylum, 
are missing
. Some believe they have been picked up by criminal gangs and exploited.
North Korea 
imposed a five-day lockdown in its capital
, Pyongyang, as it battles an increase in “recurrent flu and other respiratory diseases.”
As Turkey’s general election nears, the 
government is spending state funds
 to bolster President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his governing party at the ballot box.
From the U.S.
Image
Credit...
Desiree Rios/The New York Times
Five fired Memphis police officers were 
charged with murder
 in the death of Tyre Nichols, 29, after a traffic stop this month.
New York and other major East Coast cities are experiencing one of their 
least snowy seasons in the last 50 years
.
Internal dissent and ethical disputes have 
roiled the Justice Department’s re-examination
 of the Russia investigation, a Times report found.
The U.S. economy 
grew at an annual rate of 2.9 percent last quarter
.
More than 70 congressional Democrats urged President Biden to 
reconsider immigration policies
 that limit asylum access.
The Week in Culture
Lion heads and full-body crystals: Kylie Jenner and Doja Cat 
shocked social media
 with their outfits at Paris’s haute couture fashion week.
“Rick and Morty” 
severed ties
 with its lead voice actor and co-creator, who faces felony domestic abuse charges.
The New York Public Library has 
acquired the personal literary archives 
of Joan Didion and her husband John Donne.
U.S. senators attacked the parent company of Ticketmaster, 
calling it a monopoly
 and criticizing it for its botched ticket sales for Taylor Swift’s tour.
A 
museum exhibition in Amsterdam about Dutch wartime experiences
 has been accused of humanizing Nazis and devaluing the sacrifices of resistance fighters.
A Morning Read
Image
Credit...
Donald Miralle/Getty Images
What happens when an athlete with an extraordinary gift chooses not to use it?
After rousing victories that established him as one of golf’s biggest stars, Anthony Kim took a sudden leave from the game in 2012. Injuries were hampering his play, and he needed time to heal. But beyond his physical troubles, some invisible, unknowable forces must have been churning inside him, 
because he never came back
.
Lives Lived
The writer Paul La Farge, whose novels played with history and narrative technique, 
has died at 52
.
SPORTS NEWS FROM THE ATHLETIC
Will Arsenal win its first title since 2004? 
With half of the Premier League season over, our writers review the action and 
predict what will happen next
. Manchester City remains the favorite.
Manchester United and European soccer’s finance rules: 
United’s finance department 
hosted a delegation
 from UEFA recently. Friendly relations or an urgent chat about financial fair play? What’s amortization, anyway?
Making sense of soccer loan transfers: 
From pricey high-profile deals to development opportunities for youngsters, this is 
our guide
 to navigating the loan market.
ARTS AND IDEAS
 
Future cringe
What are the things we do today that will seem embarrassing to our future selves — the stuff that will make us cringe when we look back on the early 2020s? The Times asked 
more than 30 people
 from academia, fashion, the media, the arts and business, as well as a certain infamous chatbot. Here are some of their responses.
Christina Oxenberg, writer and fashion designer:
 “Monarchy.”
Kevin Kelly, co-founder of Wired magazine:
 “Eating dead animals. Not being able to have two spouses at once. Fearing human clones. Thinking you needed permission to visit another country.”
Chris Stein, guitarist, songwriter and co-founder of Blondie:
 “C.G.I. will be very embarrassing in the future. Every action movie has the same stupid monster with the glowing embers under the skin, and it just gets ridiculous.”
Rufus Wainwright, singer-songwriter:
 “Plastic bottles.”
ChatGPT:
 “Overreliance on technology: Our overdependence on smartphones, social media and other digital devices will likely look outdated in a few years as new technologies emerge.”
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
Image
Credit...
Craig Lee for The New York Times
Make 
this popular blackout chocolate cake
 for a birthday, or just because.
Travel
Spend 36 hours in Oslo
.
What to Watch
In the Italian crime drama “
Nostalgia
,” a man who left Naples as a teenager returns after 40 years.
Now Time to Play
Here’s 
today’s Mini Crossword
, and a clue: Like recently picked produce (five letters).
And here are 
today’s Wordle
 and 
the Spelling Bee
.
You can find all our puzzles here
.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Have a great weekend, and I’ll see you next week. — Natasha
P.S. The Times’s Virus Briefing newsletter, which guided readers through the pandemic, 
published its final edition
 this week.
“
The Daily
” is about childhood obesity.
You can reach Natasha and the team at 
briefing@nytimes.com
.