Sign up for the Gameplay newsletter.  
Each week, our puzzle editors share brain teasers, puzzles and Gameplay stories they love. 
Get it sent to your inbox.
Jump to: 
Tricky Clues
 | 
Today’s Theme
THURSDAY PUZZLE
 — I have a lot of admiration for constructors who can look at a quirky aspect of the English language and say, “Huh. That’s weird. Let’s put it in a puzzle!” And then they actually make it work, seemingly effortlessly.
The truth is that it’s hardly effortless, as Adam Wagner and Brooke Husic confirm in their constructor notes below. Developing a theme until every part of it sparkles and then filling around it so everything else sparkles requires a lot of — well, sparkles, but that is not my point. My point is that good constructors labor over their work.
You can see the effort that was put into this puzzle, from the theme to the fill to the clues. It’s a good crossword to try if you are just tiptoeing into Thursday-level territory, especially if you love wordplay (with a lowercase “w”) as much as I do.
Tricky Clues
1A. A slang term for “It’s true!” is FACT. Just the one word. If you want to really impress your children or grandchildren, when you tell them something that they don’t believe, just say “No cap!” It usually means “No lie!” and you knowing that will probably stun them into silence.
8A. The clue “Soft opening?” is hinting at an opening for the suffix “-soft.” The answer is MICRO, as in MICROsoft.
13A./14A. Quick language lesson here: “Mar contents” calls for the Spanish word for water, AGUA. Similarly, “Mer contents” is hinting at the French word for water, EAU.
31A. Nora LUM is the actress, musician and comedian known as Awkwafina. Among many other achievements, her show, “Awkwafina Is Nora From Queens,” has a hilarious scene with Natasha Lyonne about bleaching her hair, and I would post it here if it didn’t violate standards. It’s just a YouTube search away.
50A. I love the entry YOU WHAT, which makes its debut today. It’s an answer to the clue “‘Look! I colored on the walls!’”
1D. Not that kind of making out. Finding out how someone “made out” (Stop it!) is seeing how they FARED.
Editors’ Picks
A Movie Confronts Germany’s Other Genocide
Gego: Drawing in Space at the Guggenheim
Millennials Pay for a Dose of ’90s Nostalgia
Continue reading the main story
22D. I thought this was very clever. When you think of “Tricep curls,” you are probably thinking about working out, but these curls are ARM HAIR.
28D. The ERHU makes its debut as an answer to “Two-stringed Chinese instrument.”
32D. I realize that people need to vent, particularly with the ways things are these days, but this is the first I (and apparently the New York Times Crossword) have heard of RAGE ROOMS. I have escaped escape rooms, I know there are places where you can throw axes at a target, but destroying an entire room with sledgehammers? That is a special level of venting. Also, in building construction circles, that is called demolition and people are paid to do it, so go get on your side hustle.
Today’s Theme
We’re working with synonyms today (and 
not
 rebuses, to some solvers’ relief). The same word in each theme entry is offered twice, and the answer is an unrelated noun or verb that can be split into two parts. Each part is a synonym for the clue.
Not seeing it? Let’s look at 16A, where the clue is “Tease / Tease.” The answer is RIB ROAST. Both RIB and ROAST are synonyms for “tease.”
One more: At 54A, the clue is “Quit / Quit,” and the answer is DROP KICK. To DROP a class is to “quit,” and to KICK an addictive substance is to “quit” it.
Constructor Notes
Brooke Husic:
 I love when I look at the latest New York Times Crossword byline and see Adam’s name, because more often than not I’m about to be faced with a theme that wouldn’t occur to me in my wildest dreams. I will never forget this 
Sunday
 or, of course, this theme-in-the-clues 
Thursday
.
Neither of us remembered this, but it turns out I reached out to Adam to compliment his very first New York Times puzzle! I’m overjoyed that one of the cool theme kids was down to collaborate with me.
And what a collaboration! We worked so hard on this puzzle. Every single component was a whole-is-greater-than-the-sum-of-its-two-constructors situation. The theme is so different from Adam’s original pitch (which we would obviously be nowhere without). We considered dozens of options for every corner of the grid, and we clued with exquisite care — clues which have largely been retained in print! The best clue in this puzzle is Adam’s 22-Down, and my second favorite is Adam’s 50-Across. Perhaps related to the latter, I was sad to lose Adam’s DAD clue from the original, which was “Most common job in America for men.”
Adam Wagner
: I’m geeking out that I get to share a byline with Brooke, who happens to be the constructor of my 
personal favorite puzzle
. And wow, working with her lived up to the hype.
Not only did she routinely turbocharge this puzzle with fill (ERHU! RAGEROOMS!) and clues (“Pre-sale alert?” and “The Wasteland”), she’s also just fun to work with. An absolutely ideal collaboration.
Besides the byline, my other favorite thing about this puzzle is the humanity of the theme. No code, no ChatGPT, just two friends texting each other messages like “What are words that have — synonyms?”
My favorite theme entries that missed the cut are “Punch / Punch” for POP HIT and “Fight / Fight” for SPARROW. They’re all yours, cryptic clue writers!
Want to Submit Crosswords to The New York Times?
The New York Times Crossword has an open submission system, and 
you can submit your puzzles online
.
For tips on how to get started, read our series, “
How to Make a Crossword Puzzle
.”
The Tipping Point
Almost finished solving but need a 
bit
 more help? We’ve got you covered.
Spoiler alert: 
Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key
.
Trying to get back to the main Gameplay page? 
You can find it here
.